 the People call'd Quakers in Pennsylvania and
New Jersy &ca. By their Representatives--assembl'd
--at Philadelphia. 9th. month 9th. 1794. To--Our Brothers--the Indians of the Six Nations, who have
appointed to meet the Commissioner of the United States at
Canadaoque Kanandargua in order for the promotion of a Lasting Peace.
Brothers We are always glad, when we have
an opportunity of hearing from you--our old Friends--and using
our endeavours in promoting the good Work of Peace. Brothers
We understand the President of the
United States has proposed holding a Treaty with you, by
his Commissioners. Our religious profession has
always led us to promote so good a Work--and having been
informed the President of the United States--as also your
Nations, are willing and desirous we should be at the Treaty
We have therefore Authorized our beloved friends David Bacon ,
 John Parrish --Wm. Savery & Ja. Emlen 
to attend the said Treaty for
Us--On whose Behalf we make known to you--that they
are our Friends--whom we greatly love--being true Men
who finding their Love so great to their Indian Brethren
(the old Inhabitants of this Land of America) that they are
willing to come and see You--with
desires to do you Good. Brothers--We meddle not with the Affairs
of Government-- we hate Wars and Bloodshed
 But on the other hand we desire to do all we can to 
 preservepreserve and promote Peace and Good-Will amongst all
Men. Brothers
Our Grand-fathers and friend Onas
were careful in their Day to preserve Peace and Love with
their Brothers the Indians--We their Children and
Successors endeavour to do the Same--and we are happy
when we can prevail on the People to be kind
and do Good and not Evil to one Another. Brothers
We pity the Indians--as well as
the White People when they are brought into Suffering and
Distress--and would do them all the Good in our Power
--and we hope the Great and Good Spirit will pour in into
the Hearts of the great Men of the United States, and
your great Men--to adjust and compromise all their
Differences -- that Human Blood may no more 
 stain the Ground, nor the Rivers.. Brothers
We hope you will receive our Friends
and Brothers David Bacon --John Parrish --Wm Savery & Ja. Emlen --
kindly as if they were ourselves 
you may safely confide in them. We have known them 
many Years, and know they have good hearts.
We have put under their Care a small token
of Love for You--as the Descendents of the first
Inhabitants of this Land of North America
whom our forefathers found here after they had crossd
the great Water--and we hope desiring the Chain 
of 
of Friendship may be kept Bright and Clean from 
all Rust We bid you farewell 
Brothers 
Now we bid you farewell -- hoping you 
will be enabled by the great Spirit at the Council fire of 
the Treaty -- to remove all the Rubbish out of the Way 
to Peace -- that so We and You, and all the Inha- 
-bitants of the Land of North America may live 
happliy together in true Peace & Friendship 
Signed at our Meeting--
at Philadelphia
The Day & Year first above
--mentioned James Moon John Hoskins Charles West Nathan Coope Henry Drinker Jacob Lindley Samuel Smith John Drinker Joseph Bringhurst Daniel Drinker Josiah Bunting Nicholas Waln Nathan Cleaver Benjamin Mason Caleb Cresson Samuel Smith Warner Mifflin Benj. Swett Tho. Walmsby Wm. Blakey Oliver Paxson Jon. Kirkbride Enoch Evans John Roberts Mark Miller Tho. Gaskill John Gillingham Samuel Gummere William Wilson James Cresson Caleb Carmalt Sam. Clark Tho. Morris John Field Jon. Evans jun. John Elliott Jesse Foulke Amos Harvey Stephen Mendenhall Peter Yarnall Owen Biddle Benj. Clark David Cumming James Pemberton The People called Quakers in Pennsylvania and New Jersey &c.
By their Representatives assembled at Philadelphia 9th. mo. 9th. 1794 To our Brothers the Indians of the Six Nations who have appointed to
meet at Kanandargua in order for the promotion of lasting Peace. Brothers
We are always glad when we have an Opportunity of hearing from you
Our Old Friends, and using our endeavours in promoting the good work of Peace. Brothers
We understand the President of the United States has proposed
holding a Treaty with You, by his Commissioner. Our Religious Profession has always led us to promote so good a Work--
And having been informed the President of the United States, as also your
Nations are willing and desirous we should be at the Treaty. We have therefore
Authorized our beloved Friends David Bacon , John Parrish , William Savery , and 
James Emlen to attend the said Treaty for us, on whose behalf we make known to
you, that they are our Friends--whom we greatly love--being true Men, who finding
their Love so great to their Indian Brethren the Old Inhabitants of this Land of
Anerica, that they are willing to come and see you, with desires to do you good. Brothers
We meddle not with the affairs of Government
But we desire to do all we can to preserve and promote Peace and good will amongst
all Men. Brothers
Our Grandfathers and Friend Onas, were careful in their Day to
preserve Peace and Love with their Brothers the Indians.
 We their Children and Successors endeavour to do the same, and we are happy
when we can prevail on the People to be kind, and do good, and not evil to one another. Brothers
We pity the Indians as well as the White People when they 
are 
 are brought into Suffering and Distress, and would do them all the Good in our
Power--and we hope the Great and Good Spirit will put it into the Hearts
of the Great Men of the United States, and your Great Men, to adjust
and Compromise all their differences. Brothers
We hope you will receive our Friends and Brothers, David
Bacon, John Parrish , William Savery , and James Emlen kindly. We have
put under their Care a small token of Love, for you, as the Descendants of the
first Inhabitants of this Land of North America, whom our fore fathers found
here, after they had crossed the great Water. And desiring the Chain of Friend-
ship may be kept bright We bid you Farewell.
Signed at our Meeting at Philadelphia the Day and Year
first abovementioned. During our Stay with them they made
several Speeches to us, and some difficulties
occuring in the course of the Treaty, they re-
quested our Counsel & Advice w.ch we gave
them as well as we were qualified to do.
Leaving out the remainder of this Paragraph;
also omitting wholly the third & sixth
Paragraphs 