 In the year 1797, John Parrish , a friend and fa-
 ther in the church, suggested the advantage that
 might arise to the Indian natives, by bringing a few
 of their young females into this part of the country,
 in order to instruct them in the useful arts of do-
 mestic economy, by pitting them in the families
 of suitable Friends, where they might be carefully educated. This being a very weighty matter, claimed my
 serious attention, and was laid before the committee
 appointed by the Yearly Meeting, for promoting the
 improvement and gradual civilization of the Indian
 natives. The proposal was acceded to by the com-
mittee, who furnished me with a certificate, expres-
sive of their unity therewith, and addressed to the
 Indians, as follows: Brothers, We received by our friend, Henry Simmons ,
 a few lines from you. We were glad to hear from
 you, and that your young men were encouraged to
 walk in the good path, we recommended to you. It
 did our hearts good, when he told us that you had
 raised corn, wheat, and other grain, to supply your-
selves till next crop. We wish you all to be sober
 and industrious, and learn to be good farmers. Brothers, we understand that you are desirous a
 few of your girls should be placed in the families of
 some of our friends, and be taught what our daugh-
ters are. We rejoice at it, and are willing to take
 three of them; and our friend, Joseph Clark , has
 agreed to assist in bringing them safe down. They
 (H. Simmons and J. Clark ) will deliver you this.
We also have agreed to take two girls from Oneida, 
 and two from the Tuscaroras. Brothers, we expect the girls you send us,
 will remain till they are eighteen years of age, as our
 daughters are placed by their parents or friends to
 learn what we want your daughters should know;
 that is, spinning, weaving, how to make butter, and
 such other things as are useful on a farm. We shall
 place them in such families as will use them kindly,
 and instruct them in what is needful. We remain your friends and brothers, JOHN DRINKER H. DRINKER JOHN PARRISH THOS. STEWARDSON THOMAS WISTER JOHN BIDDLE Having laid the subject before my family, after
 about two weeks' consideration and preparation, I
 took an affectionate leave of them on the
 16th of the 10th month, 1797, and went to Bristol in Bucks
 county, where I met with my friend, Henry Sim-
mons, jun. who was to be my companion in the jour-
ney, which was very satisfactory. But he was taken
 unwell, after travelling about twenty miles, and con- 
 tinued so during all the journey. When we arrived at New York, a number of ar-
ticles were purchased for clothing for the girls, and
 we prosecuted our journey till, in due season, we
 arrived at Oneida, in the state of New York, where
 we were received with marks of affection, by the
 Indians. I was taken to the house of one of the
 Chiefs, his wife having been informed concerning
 my coming. On the 29th, checkPlace Nicholas Cusick , Chief of the Tus-
caroras, with his wife, made us a visit. He is an
 orderly and sensible man. We also had a conference with the Stockbridge and
 Tuscarora Indians; at which we produced our certi-
ficates, and they were read, not only by paragraphs,
 but by sentences and words. Hendrick Apaumut 
 was interpreter for the Stockbridge, and Nicholas
 Cusick 
 for the Tuscaroras. Some warriors from
 Niagara, were also present. At this conference, the
 Indians seemed fully satisfied with the proposals
 made to them. We informed them that Friends had
 nothing but love for them and their children; and
 as it was their desire that we should take their chil-
dren, we would do it at Friends' expense. On which
 information, they acknowledged Friends' love for
 them. 11th mo. 1st.checkPlace —Had a conference with the prin- 
 cipal Chief of the Oneidas, about the girls. He re-
marked, that those of the young Indians who go out,
 often learn wrong habits; and mentioned some in-
stances in the neighbourhood. He further observed,
 that they would rather the sons of Onas, (meaning of
 William Penn ,) should have their people or children,
 than any other people; but their judgment was, for
 our women to come and instruct them; which would
 better preserve their morals, and be of far greater
 utility amongst the Indians, and which they always
 understood would be the case, from the first proposal
 made by the committee. In answer to all this, I re-
plied, Great trees grow slow; meaning great
 matters take time to accomplish. He called upon me twice after this, to write a piece
 for their nation. At first, I declined; but, upon the
 second application, I complied, well knowing that
 what they requested was the mind of Friends, and
 also of Government. When it was written, they con-
ferred together about its contents; and next day I was
 informed by their Chief that they approved thereof.
 The purport of it was to warn off some bad tenants,
 who had settled on their land contrary to law. The
 Chief gave me a name, Onas, signifying the man who 
 uses a pen, which I thought no way suitable for my
 small abilities. Being frequently in company with the Stockbridge 
 Indians, I was induced to believe they are superior,
 especially the women, to many under our name, who
 make a high profession of religion. 3dcheckPlace Travelling through this settlement, I beheld
 the pleasant situation of the houses of the natives on
 a rising ground, near a clear, running, stream, sur-
 rounded with trees which are evergreen;—my mind
 was considerably humbled on seeing the manner in
 which they lived, and how free they were from those
 cares and wants, that luxury and pride have intro-
duced. Their composure and serenity are remark-
able. After a long absence of an Indian, they do not
 show that ecstacy on his return, that we do in meeting
 a friend in such a case; but, when a suitable time
 offers, he says, Satandoxry gawchee! that is, So,
 friend, art thou still in the valley of tears? About this time, I was informed of an interesting
 circumstance, which occurred among the Wyandot 
 nation of Indians, with a deputation from Congress. 
 It appears that in consequence of some encroachments
 of the white people upon the borders of their land, a
 demur or dissatisfaction arose among the Indians, and
 the affair demanded the attention of Congress, who
 appointed a certain number of judicious men, of their
 body, to investigate the grievance. The Indians 
 being informed, a council was called; and at a time
 appointed, the deputies met them, and requested to be 
 furnished with information of the boundaries of their
 territory. When, to their great surprise, a young
 Indian stepped forth, and on behalf of the council, in
 a solemn manner, spoke thus: He who causes the 
 sun to rise beyond the top of the eastern hills, and set
 below the brow of the western mountains,—that hath
 clothed the wilderness with leaves in the spring, and
 disrobed it again, in the fall.—it is He alone who hath 
 set bounds to our country. This speech so surprised
 the auditory, though men of great abilities, that they
 knew not what reply or answer to make. 5th. checkPlace Favoured with health, though my companion,
 H. Simmons , jun. labours under the affliction of the
 ague. John Tuhi and George Crosby came to see us.
 These men are of another tribe, and appear superior
 in respect to sobriety and understanding, to many of
 us, who are of a fairer complexion. Their remarks
 on divers matters were edifying. Speaking of a
 schoolmaster's qualifications, one of them observed
 that the sort of master they wanted, or required
 amongst them was, not only one who was qualified to
 teach children, and keep the school in order, but one
 who would be an example to their parents. These men offered us their horses to ride to their
 nation, and they would go on foot, being about
 seventeen computed miles, through a country almost
 impassible at this season: but I could not accede to
 their kind proposal. Had a meeting this morning. A number of Indians
 came to see us, notwithstanding it was very stormy.
 I thought this a day of refreshment, both in our little
 sitting, and in some remarks made by the natives. 6th. checkPlace A cold morning;—the wind north-east, and
 the waters high in the creeks, from the thaw of snow
 that had occurred. We intended to set out for Stock-
 bridge on foot, but as my companion was much re-
 duced by having the ague, together with some bag-
 gage we had to take, it seemed a little difficult. But 
 He who is a present help was near to provide; for a
 Stockbridge Indian came to the house at the hour we
 intended to depart, and agreed to carry our burdens.
 From my feelings, I had cause of thankfulness for
 being here; believing the Lord is bringing about a
 great work in the earth. A man, called a Baptist minister, was at Stock-
 bridge. The Indians snowed him our certificate; at
 which he expressed his approbation, and offered us
 the use of his horse for a few days. Here we were informed that the Oneida's conclu-
 sion not to send their girls from their nation, had
 such an effect upon the Tuscaroras, that notwith-
 standing we had delivered clothing for their children,
 we had to recommend them to deliver it to those who
 offered voluntarily. We could have had many more
 of the Stockbridge children, than were specified in 
 our certificate; but to keep as near as possible to
 what was therein contained, was our earnest desire. My companion was so ill as we travelled along,
 that he entreated me to permit him to lie down on
 the wet logs; which I could not suffer; and whether
 he would be able to reach the house intended was un-
 certain,—the road being so very miry. His illness
 was a considerable exercise to me, not only at this
 time, but many others. At length, we arrived at our
 Indian brother's, where we were treated with great
 kindness, and much hospitality. 7th. checkPlace A fine morning. My mind often felt the
 sweet influences of Divine Goodness; and I could be-
 hold its salutary effects among some of these inhabi-
 tants of the wilderness. Their penetration and judg-
 ment in religious matters, are very evident and
 striking, as may appear in the following narrative. It appears that two young men were prepared at
 Princeton college, to be sent as missionaries among
 the Indians. And in order to habituate themselves
 to the hardships that awaited them, they lodged upon
 boards. When they set out upon their mission, seve-
 ral persons of respectability accompanied them to
 the Creek Nation. When arrived, the Chiefs were
 called,—a conference was held with them, and it was
 proposed to call a Council; which being met, the
 visitors informed them that they had brought two
 ministers of the gospel to preach salvation to them;
 and also a number of books, which would lead them
 the way to heaven. The Indians received the infor-
 mation, without apparent emotion; and said they
 would consider the subject; which should occupy the
 space of fourteen days. Meanwhile the young minis-
 ters proposed preaching; but the Indians would not
 suffer them, until their own conclusions were made.
 At the expiration of the fourteen days, the Indians
 made inquiry, whether they had any dark-coloured
 people among them, and whether they preached the
 gospel of salvation to them: whether they gave them
 those good books, which would show them the way to
 heaven; or, whether they treated them as slaves, or
 as brothers. Being answered accordingly, the In-
 dians again spoke, Go home, and preach the gospel
 of salvation to them; give them those good books, that
 will learn them the way to heaven;—treat them as
 brethren, and not as slaves; then come and preach to
 us. In consequence of this refusal, the whole mis-
 sionary company returned; and one of them who was
 in the station of a congress-man, was so effected with
 the circumstance, that he emancipated all his slaves. When I came home, I called upon the person, and 
 inquired more fully respecting the matter, when he
 readily, seriously, and fully confirmed the same. I never experienced greater kindness than from the
 Indians. I had not only their horses to ride, but a
 guide from place to place, The natives would not
 permit me even to carry my portmanteau, nor scarce-
 ly to go over a bridge that was dangerous, but offered
 to carry me over in their arms; though I would not
 suffer them. When I lodged with the Indians, they
 would build a large fire at bed-time, in the room that
 I occupied, and always renewed it at midnight;—the
 family being remarkably still, whether up or a-bed. 8th. A hard frost. This morning, set out for Bro-
thertown, having the Chief's horse to ride, with one
 of their principal men for a guide. We travelled
 through a most fertile country, over logs, and thro'
 bushes, at the rate of about a mile, and sometimes
 two, in an hour. Arrived at Brothertown in the
 evening, and were treated with all the kindness we
 could ask. Having comfortably lodged here one
 night, the next day we set out for Fort Schuyler,
 being still accommodated with horses and a guide.
 The roads were beyond description, bad; but we
 were favoured to reach Fort Schuyler, in the even-
 ing,—having previously agreed to meet our family
 of female Indians at this place. 10th. checkPlace This morning our Indian girls came, each
 one accompanied by her parent or guardian. The
 business of parting was conducted with great serious-
 ness, for the Indians delivered their children to us
 with the utmost confidence and quietude: which
 brought over my mind a considerable weight of con-
 cern and care, that nothing on my part, might ob-
 struct this great and important work. The girls ma-
 nifested much stillness and composure, at taking
 leave of their parents, to go a long journey, with
 perfect strangers, to reside in a distant land. So we
 went to the Mohawk river, and they stepped into
 the boat, wrapped their faces in their blankets, and
 I do not remember that they uttered a word. We
 now had to pass down this river about one hundred
 miles, but got on very well the first day's voyage. 11th.checkPlace Very cold this morning, especially on the
 Mohawk. We arrived at the Falls about breakfast-
 time. These wonderful works of Providence are
 very striking to every rational beholder. The water-
 fall is fifty-one feet between the tremendous rocks,
 which form a perfect stone wall for the space of
 twenty miles along the river. This river receives
 the fewest creeks of any I know of; consequently it
 keeps nearly the same height, and is not affected by
 any tide. Travellers often stop, kindle a fire on its
 banks, and dress their meal. My companion continues ill, increasingly so, by
 being much exposed to the cold in an almost open
 boat, while the hills and fields are covered with snow.
 About four o'clock in the afternoon we arrived at
 Schenectady, and procured comfortable lodgings,
 which could not be obtained at every place. 12th.checkPlace A rainy morning. I felt well in health,
 through favour, tho' my companion, H. Simmons ,
 was still affected with the ague. Being first-day,
 early in the morning, we were taken about fourteen
 miles in a carriage to Albany, where we tarried at
 the house of our kind friend, Peter Field , during
 the remainder of this day, which I spent chiefly in
 reading the Book of Martyrs. There are but three
 families of Friends in this place, who are not thought 
 qualified to hold a meeting: therefore, they and their
 children must suffer great privation and loss, in the
 most serious and important part; for, being full
 twenty miles from the nearest meeting, perhaps
 these young people but seldom attend. It would be wisdom for parents carefully to weigh
 every difficulty, in removing with their tender off-
 spring, to settle far from meeting, and not let the
 perishing things of this world have too much sway.
 He who is rich in mercy, can mar abundance, and
 bless a little; for the earth is the Lord's, and the
 fullness thereof. 13th. checkPlace A fine mild morning. The wind being fa-
 vourable, we took passage in a sloop for New York.
 I felt a degree of thankfulness that the Lord had
 thus far preserved us, and our family of girls. 14th. checkPlace A rainy morning, though mild. Our girls
 conduct themselves with so much propriety, that
 they are remarked by persons of respectability. My
 mind was frequently exercised, so as not to suffer
 me to sleep; hoping nothing might befall my tender
 children, that would obstruct this good work, which
 the Lord is about to carry on from sea to sea, and to
 the uttermost parts of the earth. We left Albany about four o'clock in the after-
 noon, and came to Hudson that night, about thirty
 miles; notwithstanding we were aground, and laid
 at anchor till the tide floated us off. Next day we
 had a head wind; but our family appeared cheerful,
 which is a considerable satisfaction, and cause of
 thankfulness unto Him who is a present helper in
 every needful time. 16th. A clear, cold morning. Run aground by
 means of a strong wind from the western shore, about 
 nine miles above New York. When the tide was in
 favour, we carried out our anchor, but all endeavours
 at this time, proved in vain; and we were obliged to
 remain in the cold, until the tide should rise again.
 In the evening, we renewed our efforts, and were
 favoured to effect our design. We arrived opposite
 New York about nine o'clock in the evening, but
 the tide run so strong that the captain said he could
 not bring the vessel to shore. Being desirous of mo-
 ving forward as fast as practicable, we engaged the
 boat to take us ashore; which being covered with ice
 on every part, and tossing so much, that it was with
 difficulty we could get in. At length we arrived
 safely in New York, and were kindly received by
 our friend Edmund Pryor ; and may truly say, from
 the tenderness that was shown to us, and to the In-
 dian girls, it was " like a brook by the way." 17th. A snowy morning. Friends manifested
 much kindness towards us, particularly Joseph De-
laplaine, who accompanied us to the vessel, and pre-
sented to each of the girls a piece of silver. We ar-
 rived safely at Brunswick about seven o'clock in
 the evening. There was here, at this time, a certain
 great man from Poland, who had never seen an In-
 dian, and was desirous of being introduced to the
 girls. They being in a private room at supper, he
 walked in to take a view of them. When he beheld
 their orderly deportment, he seemed much surpri-
 sed; and after walking round the table where they
 were sitting, he said, These are almost civilized
 already. I informed him that the father of one of
 them would not drink wine. The same evening, the Poland general and his
 company came into the room, where my companion 
 and I were sitting. In the course of the conversa-
 tion, the word thou was used, which attracted the
 attention of a young man, who remarked in French
 to the general, that we, as a people, had a very un-
 couth way of speaking thou; — he apprehended, as I
 suppose, that we should not understand what he
 said in that language. However, I informed him,
 that it was the language of the Almighty to the first
 man, Adam; therefore bid him not reflect upon the
 people for using the language, which the Lord had
 taught them. He looked confused; and the Polander,
 who understood English, appeared to favour the ob-
 servation. 18th. Set out before day, and reached Princeton
 by breakfast-time. Through the continuance of Di-
 vine favour, my family continue well, except He-
nry, whose ague remains with him. Passing on, we
 arrived safely at Bristol in Pennsylvania, where we
 parted. Henry took charge of the children, and
 went to his home in that neighbourhood, where it
 was concluded the girls should remain until I should
 return from Philadelphia. Accordingly I took pas-
 sage in the stage, and reached home about nine
 o'clock in the evening; where, through the favour
 of a kind, preserving Providence, I found my fami-
ly well, and we were mutually rejoiced to see each
 other. 19th. A few Friends were called together, in or-
 der to be informed of my proceedings, and to con-
 sider what necessary step should be taken next.--
 They expressed their satisfaction with my commu-
 nication, and concluded that I should return the next 
 day to Henry Simmons 's, and bring the girls down
 to Philadelphia. 20th.checkPlace Rode to Bristol, and next morning to Hen-
ry Simmons 's, where the girls, remained during my
 absence. Being equipped, we again set out, and ar-
rived at my house about sun-set. The girls continu-
ed with us for three days; during which time, they
 conducted themselves in an orderly manner; and
 occasionally read the Scriptures. Many Friends call-
ed to see them, and gave them a number of small
 presents. The next concern was, to find suitable places for
 them. We accordingly set out for James Emlen 's,
 in Delaware county, where we arrived safely, and
 were kindly treated. On first-day, the 26th,checkPlace we had them all taken to
 meeting, where they behaved in a becoming man-
ner. In the course of a few days, we had them sta-
tioned at the Friends' houses, who were willing to
 take charge of them, and instruct them in the busi-
ness of housewifery. Two of the girls were placed
 with Nathan Coope and son;—one, with a woman
 Friend, who had a concern to take charge of one of
 the Indians;—one was placed with the family of
 William Jackson , and the remaining two with Isaac
 Jackson. At my taking leave of them, they wept
 considerably; and I felt much tenderness toward
 them, when I reflected upon the confidence which
 their parents had placed in me. On looking over
 this journey, I may thankfully acknowledge, that
 through adorable mercy, I have witnessed preserva-
tion; and may the great Preserver of men have the
 praise 