 The Committee appointed to confer with
the Friends who attended the Indian Treaty in the
preceding Autumn on the Matters contained in
their Report & the Observations & Occurrencies by them
otherwise noted, having in the course of attending
thereto, considered divers particulars of interesting
import as relative to the cultivation of Amity and
promotion of solid Peace wth the Indians of whom
a certain Nation called Tuscaroras assert a Claim
as original Owners of Lands held by Friends at
Hopewell in Virginia, for wch they have not receiv'd
satisfactory Compensation; another description of
those People appear dissatisfied, pleading that no conci-
liatory means have been used by the Government of
Penslyvania to attone for, or (in their own expressive
 Language) to wipe away the Blood of their Relatives
inhumanely spilt at Conestoga & Lancaster in the latter end of the year
1763; these People in common with other Indians
expressing great Confidence in, & Reliance on the
Friendship & good Offices of our religious Society, &
some of them manifesting a desire to endeavour
after a more civilized mode of living, intimate a
hope of being encouraged & aided therein by Friends,
in the way of promoting the tuition of their Children,
and affording some assistance & Instruction in the practical
Knowledge of Agriculture & the social Oeconomy of a
peaceful & inoffencive Life: These Objects wch appearing
to claim religious Attention, and another Treaty for a
more general Pacification being proposed to be held
in the 6th. mo. next, the Committee apprehend it expedient
& proper to request the Members of the Meeting for
Sufferings who reside in the City to meet & consider whe-
ther it will not be right, and agreeable to the Concern of
our Yearly Meeting, to give Notice to the large Committee
 appointed in the the year 1792 to unite with the Meeting for
Sufferings in the exercise of christian endeavours for the
Promotion of Peace with the Indians, that their Attendance
on the Occasion is desired at the stated time of our
Meeting next mo. Yearly Meeting's Committee appd. in 1792 to unite
with the Meetg for Suff. in the Concern occasioned by the
War wth the Indians Caleb Cresson Owen Biddle Tho. Lightfoot (Exet.) Thomas George Peter Yarnall Nathan Cleaver Randall Iden Samuel Gummery Jonat. Kirkbride John Simpson John Gillingham Rob. Kirkbride Stephen Mendenhall John Pearce James Emlen Simon Meredith Benj. Mason Geo. Churchman James Jackson Amos Harvey Warner Mifflin Rob. Holliday John Boon Issac Cox John Cox Benj. Clark Geo. Dillwyn Joseph Powell John Wistar Enoch Evans John Reeve Benj. Swett Rich. Lawrence Joseph Shottwell Wm. Hartshorne Henry Cliffton Rep'tives from Salem Jn. Reeve Mark Miller John Wistar Ja. Whitall jun. 