 The penetration and judgement of the Indians in matters 
 of Religion in this authentic narative is very evident which 
 is as follows. 1st Two Presbyterian Ministers under the patronage of Prince 
ton Colledge of New Jersey who were chosen by the Missiona 
ry Society to go and propagate the Gospel among the Creek 
 Indians -- And in order to give weight to this embassy seven 
 members of Congress accompanied these ministers unto their 
 Respective Nation, who took with them a number of Bi
bles for the use of this People -- When those Ministers with
 their retinue and Bibles arrived a Conference was held with 
 some of their Chiefs, where it was agreed that the Indians 
 should call a council; when met they were informed 
they had brought two Ministers of the Gospel; to preach 
the Gospel of Salvation unto them, and a number of 
 Books which would learn them the way to Heaven. 
 The Indians after a pause said they would consider of it;
 which took fourteen days -- The Ministers proposed
 preaching: but the Indians signified they must first
 consider of it -- When the time of council was over, they
 inquired of the members of the Congress if they had any
 dark people among them, whether they preached the Gospel
 of Salvation unto them, whether they gave those good Books
 which would learn them their way to Heaven? Whether
 they treated them as Brothers, or as Slaves? Being answe
-red in the negative, the Indians reply’d -- Go home and 
 preach the Gospel of Salvation to them. give them those 
 good Books which will learn them the way To Heaven. 
 treat them as Brethren and not as Slaves. and then come and 
 preach unto us -- In consequence this unexpected advice they returned -- And one of the Members of this Embassy having
 14 slaves gave them all their liberty. P.S. This occurrence took place among the Creek Indians.
 The Person who set his Slaves at liberty was E.B. a well
 known family in East New Jersey 2nd From Joseph Clark to the Indians on his return with their
 young women -- Brothers, The love I always felt for you and your chil
dren, has induced me to leave all that is near and dear, my
 children, my Friends, my property, and my business to
 come and see you -- It is neither interest nor ease, that has
 brought me from my habitation; but that your Children
 whom you delivered into my care, in the year 1797 should
 be safely returned unto you, with their qualifications and
 improvements; and as the Good and Great Spirit has pre-
served them in innocency & sobriety, and Industry, in
 this state I hope they will continue, and that you may
 write with us, to encourage them in every good word, and
 work -- That thereby the Chain of Friendship may grow
 stronger and brighter, which is the sincere desire of thy Brother, Joseph Clark Reply of the Indians New Stockbridge 10th Mo. 22 1801 Brother attend, We wish to speak a few words to you -- we feel
 thankful to the great good Spirit, that he put a concern in your
 heart for us, The poor Indians, so that you was willing to leave
 all your friends, to take a long journey, and that you have
 kindly and safely conducted our young women, whom we
 put under your care some years ago -- We rejoice that the Great
 Good Spirit has protected and preserved you all this way, while you walk in the long path so that you are safely arrived by the side of our fireplace in good health, and that we are allowed to see
 each others’ faces this day -- Friend we are sensible that all the
 kindness you have done, you do purely out of love to us, for
 which we with our Women heartily thank you -- We hope we
 shall never forget your Kindness -- Respecting the Kind talk
 which you brought us from our friends, we wish to send a few
 words to them in writing. therefore we desire you to stay with
 us all the day, and to night, that we may have time to write
 to our friends, and that you may take a little more rest Joseph Shawquithquirt 3rd New Stockbridge 10 mo. 14, 1801 Brothers attend Our friend and brother J. Clark safely arri-
 ved here by the side of our fire place on the 13th of the 10 Month
 with our 3 young women, who have been under your benevo-
 lent care for a considerable time, whom he conducted through
 along journey, and delivered you Kind talk the next day Brothers Our satisfaction is very great in finding that the
 Friends have taken great pains to instruct these Girls in sober
 and steady conduct, and in these good Customs and useful Me
 thods, which are necessary for living happily and comfortably
 and that they have been taught to read and write and read
 the English Language, for which kindness we heartily thank
 you -- We hope that the advantage they had will be a be-
 nefit to them as well as to us, we will endeavorer to encou-
 rage them to improve their acquirements
 Brothers We are sensible that it is out of love and pity you
 have exercised many kindnesses towards us, ever since friend
 ship has been established between you and us, -- not only in
 good words, but we have experienced your properties, that
 we poor Indians might Know how to help ourselves, that by Industry, Care, and Prudence we might live happy and com-
 fortable -- And may the Great Good Spirit ever countenance
 the Chain of Friendship, that it may remain bright in the la
 test generation is the wish of your Brothers. farewell To
 David Bacon 
 Henry Drinker 
 Ellis Yarnal 
Thos Wister Joseph Shasquithquirt Isaac Wranpey Moses Wrainkoinhurst Jacob Concapus Solomon Quaikenut Hendricks Aupaumat Jos. Quinney 4th From the Oneida Indians to 
 David Bacon 
Jno Parish 
Hen? Drinker
Ellis Yarnal 
Nat. Harper 
Jno Biddle 
Thos Wistar 
Peter Barker 
Thos Fisher 
James Cooper 
Jno Elliot 
Wm Savery 
Jacob Lindley 
Oliver Paxton 
Thos Stewardson Oneida 15th 10 mo. 1801Brothers We have received your Counsel and Advice at this
 time, as well as at many other times, and are made thankful
 that the great good Spirit continues to put you in remembrance
 of us, to give us this counsel and advice. some of us have
 agreed together to endeavour to follow it, and improve our
 land, raise more cattle, grain & Flax, and learn our
 young women to Spin, and other useful employments
 in the House we have improved in building Houses &
 Barns, and find great good from it Brothers, we wish to listen to your counsel and advice
 not to offend, or hurt one another, nor to go to War. We last
 summer had a general counsel with many of the Western
 tribes of Indians, at Buffalow Creek, where we all agreed
 to live in peace and renewed the Chain of Friendship and wish
 to attend to the Good Spirit, it will teach us to refrain from all
 evil practices Brothers, We are sensible that the great good Spirit governs
 all the seasons, and some of us wish to live more and more in his favour, that we should more and more be worthy of his bles
sings. Notwithstanding some through unwatchfulness
 are taken captive by the great and mighty as were manyadversary destroyer Brother Joseph Clark We also thank you for your good counsel
 we believe the Great & Good Spirit has sent you amongst us. We
 will treasure it up in our hearts from day to day and we
 will teach it to our Children. We wish always, we wish all
-ways, to keep bright the Chain of Friendships and remain your Brothers Cornelius Otisleda Peter Onauga John Schunnuds Lus Connis Christian Schonadab Peter Iaulotis Cornelius Cawnawoc Hendrick Faunchaw John Whisksheak 5th
 From a Tuscarora Indian Dear Friends We are all well and glad to see the 3
 girls, and our friend J. Clark . we often think of the kindess
 you shewed us -- Our nation now plough their land, and
 raise some flax, and we spin a little, and we hope by the
 assistance of the Great Good Spirit we grow in his favour
 so as to have plenty of Corn, Cattle, and Flax -- and becom
 his children, and rest in his Kingdom -- I feel much
 love in my heart, but am not able to express myself Peter Okasantguo From a Young Indian Woman to Eliz. Townsend (daughter
 of Joseph Clark ) Dear friend. No doubt but thee will ex-
cuse a letter from me, who wishes thee, and all they society
 well. tho unknown to each other as to our Bodily Per-
sons, yet I sincerely hope that we sincerely frequently
 converse with the same Spirit. My dear Friend, I thank
 thy Father and likewise thee for your kind care towards
us the Natives of America, for I believe that you will have have your reward, for God will reward you. I give my
 kind love to all thy friends, and tell them that the great & good
 Spirit is on its way to the dark corners of the Earth -- When
 my dear Friend? When will that happy day appear?
 When the Nations will learn War no more; for then Lion
 will arise and travel, and bring forth, She will bring
 forth. So farewell from thy unknown friend Gracy Crosby 6th
An address from Joseph Clark to Indians When the great and good Spirit made the first Man and
 Woman, He placed them in the Garden of Eden and com-
manded them to dress it -- Thus we learn that the Great and
 Wise Author of all good, intended Man should labour
 from the beginning of the Creation; and we are further ins
-tructed from the scriptures of Truth, that the Lord’s cho
sen Servants in every age were those that laboured
 For Moses was in a particular manner called of the
 Most High, while he was engaged keeping his Father in
 Law’s sheep, as was also Elizher the Prophet, when he was
 ploughing with twelve yoke of Oxen, and Paul, that emi
nent Apostle informs us that he laboured with his hands
 that he might support himself. But above all these test-
imonies my Brothers liken be obedient to the Command
 and imitate the example of Christ, the Great Good Spirit, who
 had all power in Heaven and Earth; and once in a miracu-
lous manner fed five thousand Men besides Women and
 Children, with only two loaves, and five fish -- and not with
standing afterwards gave this special Command to gather
 fragments that nothing should be lost - How clearly and
 fully this shews poor frail Man the constant necessity
 of being careful of the good and things that an all wise Providence places in his power -- And in order to make the man of God
 more perfect, He further informed him, that it was more
 blessed to give than to receive -- I conclude in a degree of that
 love which we wishes well unto all the families of the Earth from
 your Brother - Joseph Clark Philadelphia 12 mo. 14- 1801 N.B. My desire is that my Brother David Fowler would
 read this at the conclusion of the time of Worship, unto the Bro
thertown Indians, and also unto the Oneida Indians, as
 in such a manner as thou may judge best. 7th Observations on the Brother-town Indians who have within these last 3 years, built 9 Log Houses, 3
 log Barns, and 4 frame Barns, also will been closed this
 fall 2 frame Houses -- They have about 8 yoke of
 Oxen added to their former number (a considerable num
-ber not easily ascertained) They have lately purchased
 270 sheep likewise as Colts. In the year 1799 they wove
 about 100 yards of Linnen. In the year 1801 they wove
 upwards of 600 Yards. In 1799-- seven families raised
 a little wheat. In 1801-- 56 families raised wheat, Corn
 and Flax in proportion. They have 7 Weavers, and a black
smith all Indians -- They have a neat place of Worship
 steadily attended, and a School, and exemplary teacher --
 several sober Indian families have been added unto them
 from remote parts -- They have also a grist and saw
 mill, likewise several Ovens - and now raise more
 Geese Observations on the Stockbridge Indians, who it is said are increasing 20 Women and two men are
 in full church membership; To which may be added, two
 Tuscarora Indians -- They have built 100 new houses
 these last 4 years -- 105 children fit to attend School –- AlsoAlso about 30 yoke of Oxen, some sheep are possessed by
 them -- Almost every family has a cow, some 3 or 4 -- 
 One of these Indians is burning good Bricks -- They have
 a handsome place of worship, which is constantly attended
 twice a week likewise they have a saw and grist mill
 and a School house. Observations on the Tuscarora Indians (not perfect)
 but we learn they plough more land, and receive more cattle
 than formerly -- They have built several new houses within
 three or four years, raise more flax, and spin a little
 and say their nation increaseth Observations on the Oneida Indians. they have 58
 head of horned Cattle. 7 of which are oxen, 5 good frame
 Houses, and 5 frame Barns, one building this summer
 This also said they are raising Wheat -- This generally
 allowed they do not paint so much as they did 5 or 6 year
 ago, and from my Observations among them I discovered
 only two -- They have a Missionary Minister and School
 Master among them -- they have also a Grist and Saw
 Mill. [J. Clark to Catharine Solomon]
8th New Stockbridge 10 Month 15, 1801
 Friend and Sister This is to let you know I am much
 rejoiced to see friend J Clark come by the side of our fire
 place and bring our girls home I cannot but
 bless the great good spirit for his great goodness in
 preserving our long absented girls from various
 dangers and that they have found favor in
 the sight of such good friends, as to take them
 under their benevolent care, and instruct them in
 good things and ways. I acknowledge that you have
10th
 done a great deal for us, out of Love to the great good
 spirit and your fellow creatures--that we poor natives
 might as it were rise up and walk and follow the good path
 which you follow, by which I always feel thankful and
 hope you will not lose your reward in heaven. I feel
 our obligations are increased as our advantages are increa
sed to serve God in sincerity and in truth. The Religion
 is somewhat low amongst us but Christians seem
 to keep on still. there has been but a few careless ones stirred
 up for soul concern since your young men left us who
 at Oneida-- but others seem still to remain in the bondage
 of spiritual Pharaoh. But God is able to turn their hearts
 and make them willing to walk towards Concern--
 I have no time to express as I feel, but to conclude with
 your prayers that the great good Spirit may pour down
 his blessing upon us--that religion may again revive
 among us. Catharine Solomon To Elizabeth Townsend 
Daughter of J Clark 
9th New Stockbridge 14 10 Month. 1801.
 Dear Sister I take this opportunity to inform you that
 we have received your kind letter which gladden our
 hearts. We are all well - and the great good spirit has
 blessed the labours of our Lands the summer past with
 good crops of grain -We are happy to see our good
 friend Jos. Clark , also our young women who were
 put under the care of our friends -I often thought of you
 since you left our Country -I wish all the women
 in the world as well as men become such as you
 are, followers of the Great good Spirit _ then it would
 be all Brothers and Sisters – How beautiful this would
 be _But humble submission to the great good spirit is
 our duty -I hope by the help of the good spirit we and you
 shall never forget that we are dependant creatures
 as you said can do nothing spiritually good may
 the good Spirit bless you farewell To Susanna Gregory Lydia Hendricks P.S. Give my love to thy Husband -give my love to
 our kind Sister Hannah Jackson -am sorry that
 we cannot at present send letters to all our kind sisters
 at Philadelphia 10th
 Copy of Joseph Clark’s Certificate Dear Friend. Our esteemed Friend J Clark called
 at my House of the 16 of 11mo. and staid with me over
 first Day - On the 12th, I set out with him to Stock
bridge where we set before night, and returned the
 3 young women under his care. Next day the
 Chiefs met, and some of their principal Women
 where he informed them in very affecting language
 how that he had left all that was near and dear
 to him, to accompany their children home
 and I can truly say, his life and conversation
 has been to me edifying and exemplary With Desires for his safe return to his family
 and Friends from good friend
John Dean 10th
 To the yearly Meetings Committee on Indian affairs, David Bacon William Savery James Cooper John Parish Thomas Wistar Thos Fisher Ellis Yarnall Oliver Paxton Peter Barker Henry Drinker Thos Stewardson Joseph Whitall Brothertown with state of New York
 The 19th of the 10th Month, 1801 