 In the first volume of Friends' Miscellany, was
 published an Account of a Journey to the Indian
 settlements, for the purpose of bringing some of the
 young female natives to receive an education among
 Friends, near Philadelphia. It will be recollected,
 that six Indian girls were committed to the care of
 Joseph Clark for this purpose, and that they were
 placed with divers friends in Chester county and
 parts adjacent, where they remained for some length
 of time, in learning the arts of domestic economy,
 and acquiring the habits of civilized life. At suit-
able opportunities, and with persons from their own
 neighbourhoods in the Indian country, three of them
 were conveyed home; the other three remained with
 Friends till the year 1801, being about four years.
 It was then proposed that Joseph Clark should re-
turn with them, in order that they might be safely
 conducted to their respective habitations, parents,
 relatives and friends. Joseph cordially acceded to
 this proposal, and cheerfully undertook the journey,
 as feeling not only a warm interest in the Indian
 natives, but under some obligation, on account of
 the confidence reposed in him by the parents when
 they committed their daughters to his care. Of this
 journey, he gives the following narrative. Upon our arrival at New York, we received
 every mark of attention that was necessary. As I
 was alone with the Indian girls, Friends expressed
 great concern for me; and we were conducted to a
 friend's house which proved as a brook by the
 way, both temporally and spiritually. It being
 first-day, we attended meetings both forenoon and
 afternoon. Next morning, our beloved friends here furnish-
ed us with a carriage and horses, to carry us as far
 as Albany; with a letter of recommendation to a
 particular friend there, who, on our arrival, received
 us with open arms, and procured a carriage with a
 sober driver, that conveyed us safely to the Indian
 country. On my arrival at Stockbridge and delivering up
 the girls, I could discover no less joy manifested by
 the whole nation, than by their parents. In a day
 or two, a council was called. It was held in a large
 room, at the house of one of the chiefs. Three
 great trunks of trees were brought in, and laid on
 the floor apart for the women to sit on. On one
 side was a two armed chair, constructed by the na-
tives, in which sat the sachem; the interpreter sat
 next, and myself was seated next him; while the
 chiefs occupied a seat opposite the women, the latter
 sitting in a leaning posture, with their eyes fixed on
 the ground, the lids of which appeared not to move.
 A solemn silence ensued;—when He who meted
 out the heavens with a span, seemed to preside
 over the whole assembly: and I can safely say, the
 impressions of that solemnity have never departed
 from me. After some time, I arose in much humility, and
 informed them that it was neither curiosity, ease,
 nor interest, that induced me to leave my habita-
tion; but that their children whom they delivered
 to me four years ago, might be safely returned to
 them, with their qualifications and improvements.
 And as the great and good Spirit had preserved
 them from various evils, so I hoped they would con-
tinue to do well; with more to that import. A solemn pause ensued: then some low words
 were spoken by the chiefs, and lower whispers
 among the women. A pause then followed; after
 which the interpreter stood up, and turning towards
 me, spoke to this import;—Brother, attend. We
 rejoice to see you come by the side of our fire-place;
 and that our girls have been preserved from various
 dangers; also, that you have been preserved while
 walking all along the long path;—and we know that
 all you do is out of love to us poor Indians. It is proper to remark, that each girl had a Bible
 and other religious books, in which they could read;
 also, a spinning wheel, with abundance of clothes of
 their own making. Our friend John Dean , his wife and son, reside
 at this place, under patronage of the Indian com-
mittee of New York Yearly Meeting. On first-day,
 I sat with this family in a meeting capacity, which,
 is their usual practice. When our meeting ended,
 I went with J. Dean to the Indians' place of worship;
 where the ceremonies of a funeral were about to be
 solemnized. The coffin was placed about twenty
 yards from the house, while the congregation re-
 mained within. One of the Indians named David
 Fowler appeared in supplication: after which, the
 whole assembly sung an hymn in the English lan-
guage, two lines of which were, Lord, make our souls ascend on high,
 Where neither gold nor pearls can fly. Next day I paid a visit to David Fowler . Upon
 entering the house, my attention was first attracted
 to a shelf, containing Cruden's Concordance and a
 large folio Bible; the latter was in the Indian lan-
guage. This person is a man of exemplary life,—
interested for the progress of knowledge among his
 brethren, and has devoted some time to the instruc-
tion of their children. He also possesses an exten-
sive acquaintance with plants, as to their qualities
 and medicinal virtues. I also visited John Crossly 's family, where were
 a number of children; and notwithstanding I was so
 great a stranger, they manifested no surprise or cu-
riosity, but appeared to be entirely engaged at their
 books. This I considered an example to those in
 civilized life, and what is called refined education. I now took leave of my Indian brethren at Stock-
bridge, informing them that I was going among my
 friends;—and were it a thousand miles off, their
 house was my house,—their table, my table,—and
 their bed, my bed. At which they gave a loud sigh. Set out with John Dean , and passed through the
 Tuscarora nation to Oneida; where I was conducted
 to the house of John Scanacloe , the chief of that na-
tion. Immediately on my entering, the old man
 shook his ears,—indicating that we could not under-
stand each other's language. My mind was cover-
 ed with awe, in considering what manner of persons
 those ought to be who come among this people. In this room were six or seven women, and a
 little babe fixed upon a kelah of exquisite workman-
ship, covered with two silk handkerchiefs. They
 informed me by their fingers that the age of the child
 was four weeks and four days. After some time,
 the wife of the chief spoke a few words; at which,
 all present assumed an air of seriousness. Then,
 going across the room, the others followed her, and
 placed themselves three on each side of her. She
 then took down from the wall, a curious, twisted
 string, of considerable length, containing a number
 of knots; and to every seventh knot, a piece of red
 wool was attached. This was her calendar. One
 of the women informed me that every knot was a
 day, and every red mark was a week; constituting
 the time since the chiefess had buried a valuable
 daughter. This circumstance was attended with
 more solemnity than some of our funerals. After recommending the distribution of the pre-
sents I had in charge; and through favour, all things
 appearing to harmonize,—a proposition was made
 to smoke,—a practice in high esteem among the
 Indians: but I not being accustomed to it, did not
 accept the offer. Whereupon John Scanadoe gave
 me two curious pipes as presents. I now took leave of my Indian friends and set
 out for Utica, accompanied by John Dean . On our
 arrival there, we called at the house of a lawyer,
 where Grace , the daughter of John Crossly, resi-
ded. I requested of my companion, that he would
 make choice of some retired house for a lodging;
 my mind being disposed for silence and meditation,
 in reflecting on the favourable opportunities we had
 had among the Indians. But, contrary to my re-
quest, at least in appearance,—he rode up to the
 greatest house in the place, occupied by a person
 whose name was Walker, and who highly approba-
ted the labours of Friends among the Indians. Being introduced to the family, we sat in a splen-
did hall, where tea was served. In the course of
 conversation, I happened to mention some events
 of my labours among the poor people in New Jer-
sey, in the neighbourhood of a furnace, where I had
 distributed some books; and had been accompanied
 from cottage to cottage by the superintendent's
 wife, who had an amiable daughter that was married
 to a magistrate of that place, and had lately been
 received into membership with the Society of
 Friends. As I was relating this circumstance, Walker's
 wife broke forth into tears; and, raising her hand-
kerchief to her face, wept aloud. Her husband in-
quired the cause of her emotion; when she patheti-
cally informed us, that the persons I had spoken of
 were her mother and sister. It was a very affecting
 season. A comfortable night's lodging, and an early
 breakfast prepared us for pursuing our journey; and
 in secret my heart ejaculated, Return unto thy
 rest, O my soul, for the Lord hath dealt bountifully
 with thee. The morning was mild and serene, and we pro-
ceeded down the Mohawk river to Schenectady.
 On the way, stopped to visit some Germans, and
 distributed some books among them in their own
 language; which they received with tears of grati-
tude. Went by the way of Nine Partners, and at-
 tended Quarterly meeting there. Thence to New
 York, where the Indian committee being assembled,
 I gave them such information as they required.—
 Then directed my course toward home, where,
 through continued favour, I arrived and found all
 well. JOSEPH CLARK 