 Detroit 6 mo 24th. 1793 Dear Friend
John Drinker Concluding it will be satisfactory to our Friends
of the Meeting for Sufferings to be informed how we spend our time
we desire thee to acquaint them that we all met together the 27th.
of last mo at Niagara; in the neighbourhood whereof we found a
larger number of Friends than we expected; had several Meetings
with them, and distributed the Books sent by us, which were
very acceptable, and many more would be useful, as some
families have neither Bible nor Testament in their houses. The Commissioners being informed by Col. Mc.Kee that the
Indians would not be collected so soon as was expected, concluded
to stay at Navy Hall with Gov. Simcoe until the return of Jasper
Parrish, by whom we hope to hear from our beloved Friends. But
it was thought best for us to proceed to this place, where we arrived
two weeks ago, & have the opportunity of seeing many of the Indians
as they pass on to the conference held by them preparatory to the
Treaty--a large body from very remote parts appears to be collecting
some of them have expressed themselves in very friendly terms, & we
hope the interviews we have had will help to open the way in the
future progress of the business, which appears to us increasingly im-
portant & delicate. The Reports that have prevailed here for some
days past of Gen. Wayne 's Army having moved from Fort Washington
to the Miami Plains, nearer to Sandusky, have excited jealousies
among the Indians. On the whole our situation is exercising, &
requires Wisdom & Patience, which it is our united desire we may
be favoured with. We have had two Meetings in this place, and two on the other
side of the River among some sober Germans & others, which we
believe were to general satisfaction. The people here as well
as the Officers & Soldiers of the Garrison are very civil & kind to us
and appear pleased with the opportunity of information respecting 
Friends Principles, so that we hope our being here will not be
altogether useless, tho' it is trying to be thus detained. We are with the Salutation of Love to all the Members
of the Meeting for Sufferings & others
Thy Affectionate Friends John Parrish Jacob Lindley John Elliot William Savery Wm. Hartshorne Joseph Moore , being absent his name is omited 