 PREFACE. The following account of the Seneca Indians, was published some
 months since, in the columns of The Friend, or Advocate of Truth;
 but is now presented to the public, on a larger type, to be sold sepa-
rately, or bound up with an original work upon the Civilization of
 the Indian Natives, recently published from the pen of the same
 author. A number of corrections have been made in the original essays, and
 some interesting extracts added, from the speeches of the celebrated
 Chief, Cornplanter , during an interview with President Washington . Those who feel an interest in the welfare of these Aborigines of our
 country, have now an opportunity to rescue from oblivion this sketch
 of their history, at a very cheap rate, and in a form much more satis-
factory than that of detached fragments, interspersed with various
 other matter, and scattered through several numbers of a periodical in
 fine type. It may not be out of place to insert the following explanatory note,
 from the proprietor of the Friend or Advocate of Truth, formerly an
 inhabitant of the state of New York:- When the interior of the state of New York was first explored by Europeans, it was found in the posses-
 ion of five distinct and powerful Indian nations, viz.-the Mohawks, Oneidas, Onondagas, Cayugas, and
 Senecas. These five nations, though independent, like the individual states of the present American union,
 had formed themselves into a confederated government, for the purpose of general defence, and held their
 grand national councils at Onondaga, the centre point of the five separate sovereignties. 
In the early part of the last century, the Tuscaroras removed from the south to the western part of the
 state of New York, and were received into the confederacy, from which time the term 'Six Nations' has
 been used for general distinction. An Account of the Seneca Indians As the present seems to be an interesting crisis respecting the abori-
gines of our country, and particularly some of the southern tribes,
 whose precarious situation has awakened the feeling, and excited the
 sympathies of an enlightened public; and as memorials have been pre-
sented to congress, with a view of protecting this much injured race of
 mankind in their rightful possessions, it may, perhaps, be a means of
 increasing our sympathies for the Indian tribes, to bring into view the
 situation of those more contiguous to our borders. For if the faith of
 the United States is once broken, to favour the claim of any individual
 state, and the solemn pledges, made by President Washington , to pro-
tect the Indians in the possession of their land, are violated, to the ex-
pulsion of one nation or tribe, then the fate of the Indian is sealed. He
 is no longer secure within the boundaries of this great republic. As
 he becomes obnoxious to those of a fairer skin, and the little land he
 posesses, like Naboth's vineyard, is convenient for his master's use, he
 is then to be extirpated from the inheritance of his fathers, and dri-
ven from valley to mountain, and from mountain to hill, until his feeble
 voice is scarcely heard even among the western wilds. Although we hope better things of the legislators of our country, and
 indulge a glimmering hope, that they will still continue their protection
 to the aboriginal lords of the soil who kindly received and made room
 for our forefathers when they first landed on their shores; and minis-
tered to their necessities, when they were strangers in a strange land;
 yet, from the measures in operation by some of the southern and west-
ern states, with regard to the Indian tribes within their limits, we can-
not but entertain fears for their safety. It is therefore desirable, at
 least, to retain a history of those sons of the forest, who have made
 some progress in the civilized arts, and with a view of developing their
 native character, as well as their progress in civilization, the writer of
 this article designs to offer, through the medium of the Friend, or Ad-
vocate of Truth, some account of the Seneca Nation, whose situation,
 perhaps, above all others, would entitle them to the strongest claims of
 protection from the general government. At a treaty held at Canandaigua, under the authority of the United 
States, with the Six Nations, dated the eleventh of November, 1794, 
after describing the boundaries of the lands belonging to the Seneca 
 Nation, the treaty further states- Now the United States acknowledge 
 all land within the afore-mentioned boundaries to be the property of
 the Seneca nation; and the United States will never claim the same,
 nor disturb the Seneca nation, nor any of the Six Nations, or any of
 their Indian friends residing thereon, and united with them in the free
 use and enjoyment thereof; but it shall remain their's until they choose
 to sell the same to the people of the United States, who have the right
 to purchase. The Seneca nation of Indians, previous to a sale they made in the
 year 1797, were the proprietors of the greater part of the land west
 of the Genesee river, in the state of New York. By an indenture, bearing date the fifteenth of Ninth-month, 1797,
 they sold to Robert Morris , in consideration of one hundred thousand
 dollars, to be by the said Robert Morris vested in the stock of the
 bank of the United States, and held in the name of the president of
 the United States, for the use and behoof of the Seneca nation of
 Indians, they bargained and sold a large tract of cuintry mentioned in
 said indenture, to the said Robert Morris, excepting, nevertheless, and
 always reserving out of this grant and conveyance, all such pieces
 and parcels of the aforesaid tract, and such privileges thereunto be-
longing, as is therein afterwards particularly mentioned, which said
 pieces or parcels of land so excepted, are, by the parties to the presents
 clearly understood to remain the property of the said Seneca nation
 of Indians, in as full and ample a manner as if the said presents
 had not been executed. Agreeably to the provisions made by the treaty, these reservations
 were located to the Indians in such places and manner as were desired
 by the sachems and chiefs. The principal reservations were, the Alle-
ghany, the Cattaraugus, the Buffalo, and the Tonnewonta, with several
 smaller reservations near the Genesee river, containing in all three
 hundred and twelve square miles, or nearly two hundred thousand
 acres. The noted Chief Cornplanter , and his family or tribe, resided in
 Pennsylvania, a little south of the state of New York, on a tract of
 land secured to him and his heirs forever, by a special act of the state. This Chief (whose Indian name is Ki-on-twogh-ky,) was much
 esteemed for his wisdom and superior skill, in directing the great coun-
cils of the nation; and finer specimens of pathetic eloquence are scarcely
 to be met with in the annals of history, either amongst savage or civil-
ized nations, than are displayed in his speeches to President Washing-
ton, in the year 1790, when he, with several other noted chiefs, visited
 Philadelphia. These speeches, with the President's answers, the famous
 Chief had recorded in a book, of which the writer obtained a copy in
 the year 1800. They were printed some years since by the committee
 who had the charge of promoting civilized habits among the Indians-
 but are rarely to be met with at present. Our limits will not admit
 their republication here, but to give the reader some specimens of the
 superior powers of mind with which this native son of the forest was
 endowed, we will here give a few extracts from them, as also of the
 President's replies. To the Great Counsellor of the Thirteen Fires, the Speech of Corn-
planter, Halftown and Great Tree , Chiefs and Counsellors of the Seneca Nation. Father, The voice of the Seneca Nation speaks to you, the Great
 Counsellor in whose heart the wise men of all the Thirteen Fires have
 placed their wisdom. It may be very small in your ears, and we,
 therefore, entreat you to hearken with attention, for we are about to
 speak of things which are to us very great. When you gave us peace, we called you Father, because you pro-
mised to secure us in the possession of our land; do this, and so long
 as our land shall remain, that beloved name will live in the heart of
 every Seneca. Father, when you kindled your Thirteen Fires separately, the
 wise men who assembled at them, told us that you were all brothers -
 the children of one great Father, who regards also the red people as
 his children. They called us brothers, and invited us to his protection.
 They told us that he resided beyond the great waters, where the sun
 first rises - that he was a king, whose power no people could resist - 
 and that his goodness was as bright as that sun. What they said went
 to our hearts. We accepted the invitation, and promised to obey him.
 What the Seneca nation promise, they faithfully perform - and when
 you refused obedience to that king, he commanded us to assist his be-
loved men in making you sober. We obeyed him - we did no more
 than yourselves had led us to promise. The men who claimed this pro-
mise, told us that you were children, and had no guns, that when they
 had shaken you, you would submit - we hearkened to them, and were
 deceived, until your army approached our towns. We were deceived;
 but your people, in teaching us to confide in that king, had helped to
 deceive us, and now we appeal to your heart - is all the blame ours? Father, When we saw that we had been deceived, and heard the
 invitation you gave us to draw nigh to the fire which you had kindled,
 and talk with you concerning peace, we made haste towards it. You
 then told us that we were in your hand, and that by closing it, you
 could crush us to nothing-and you demanded from us a great country
 as the price of that peace you had offered to us, as if our want of 
 strength had destroyed our rights. Our chiefs had felt your power, and
 were unable to contend against you, and they, therefore, gave up that
 country. What they agreed to, has bound our nation; but by this time
 your anger against u must be cooled, and although our strength has
 not increased, nor your power become less, we ask you to consider
 calmly - were the terms dictated to us by your commissioners reasona-
ble and just?[After setting forth, in a plaintive strain, the many wrongs they had
 suffered, and the difficulties they had been led into by subsequent
 treaties with individuals, they go on, and say,] Father, We could
 bear this confusion no longer, and determined to lift up our voice, so
 that you might hear us, and to claim that security in possession of our
 lands, which your commissioners so solemnly promised us, and we now
 entreat you to inquire into our complaints, and redress our wrongs.
 We have already said how we came to join against you: - we saw that
 we were wrong - we wished for peace - you demanded a great country
 to be given up to you as the price of peace; and we ought to have
 peace, and possession of the little land you then left us. Father, We will not conceal from you that the great God, and not
 man, has preserved the Cornplanter from the hands of his own nation,
 for they ask continually, 'where is the land on which our children, and
 their children after them, are to lay down upon?' 'You told us,' say
 they, 'that the line drawn from Pennsylvania to Lake Ontario, would
 mark it forever on the east, and the line running from Beaver Creek
 to Pennsylvania would mark it on the west; and we see that it has not
 been so - for first one, and then another, comes and takes it away, by
 order of that people who you tell us promised it to us.' He is silent,
 for he has nothing to say. When the sun goes down, he opens his heart
 before God, and earlier than the sun appears again upon the hill , he
 gives thanks for his protection during the night season - for he feels that
 when men become desperate by their danger, it is God only that can
 preserve him. He loves peace, and all that he had in store he has
 given to those who have been robbed by your people, lest they should
 plunder the innocent to repay themselves. The whole season which
 others have employed in providing for their families, he has spent in en-
deavouring to preserve peace, and at this moment his wife and children
 are lying on the ground in want of food - his heart is in pain for them
 - but he perceives that the Great Spirit will try his firmness in doing
 what is right. Father, All the land we have been speaking of, belonged to the
 Six Nations. No part of it ever belonged to the King of England, and
 he could not give it to you. The land we live on, our fathers received
 from God, and they transmitted it to us for our children, and we cannot
 part with it. Father, These are to us very great things - we know that you are
 very strong - and we have heard that you are wise - and we shall now
 wait to hear your answer to what we have said, that we may know
 that you are just. The foregoing speech was signed by Cornplanter , Half-town , and
 Great Tree , in the presence of Joseph Nicholson , interpreter, and Timo-
thy Matlack. President Washington answered them in a style adapted to the
 Indian mode of speech. In reply to their embarrassments respecting
 the sale of their lands, he says, I am not uninformed that the Six
 Nations have been led into some difficulty with respect to the sale of
 their lands, since the peace - but I must inform you that these evils
 arose before the present government of the United States was esta-
blished, when the separate states and individuals under their authority
 undertook to treat with the Indian tribes respecting the sale of their
 lands. But the case is now entirely altered - the general government,
 only, has the power to treat with the Indian nations, and any treaty
 formed and held without its authority, will not be binding. Here, then, is the security for the remainder of your lands - no
 state or person can purchase your lands, unless at some public treaty
 held under the authority of the United States. The general govern-
ment will never consent to your being defrauded, but will protect
 you in all your rights. Hear well, and let it be heard by every person in your nation, that
 the President of the United States declares that the general govern-
ment considers itself bound to protect you in all the land secured to
 you by the treaty at Fort Stanwix, the twenty-second of October,
 1784, except such parts as you may since have fairly sold to persons
 properly authorized to purchase of you. Your great object seems to be the security of your remaining lands,
 and I have, therefore, upon this point, meant to be sufficiently strong
 and clear, that in future you cannot be defrauded of your lands - that
 you possess the right to sell, and the right of refusing to sell your lands
 - that, therefore, the sale of your lands in future, will depend entirely
 upon yourselves. In the conclusion of his speech, the President assures them the
 United States will be true and faithful to their agreement. The Second Speech of Cornplanter , Half-town , and Big Tree . Father, Your speech, written on the great paper, is to us like the
 first light of the morning to a sick man, whose pulse beats too strongly
 in his temples - he sees it, and rejoices, but is not cured. You have spoken plainly on the great point, that you will protect
 us in the land secured to us at Fort Stanwix, and that we have a right
 to sell, or refuse to sell-this is very good. But our nation complain
 that you compelled us at that treaty to give up too much of our lands
 - we confess that our nation is bound by what was there done, and
 acknowledge your power - we have now appealed to yourselves against
 that treaty, as made while you were too angry at us - and, therefore,
 unreasonable and unjust - to this you have given us no answer. Father, That treaty was not with a single state - it was the thir-
teen states. We should never have given all that land to one state -
 we know that it was before you had the great authority - and as you
 have more wisdom than the commissioners who forced us into that treaty,
 we expect you have more regard to justice, and will now, at our re-
quest, reconsider the treaty, and restore to us part of that land. Father, The land which lies between the line running south from
 Lake Erie to the boundary of Pennsylvania, as mentioned in the treaty
 of Fort Stanwix, and the eastern boundary of that land which you sold
 and the Senecas confirmed to Pennsylvania, is the land on which Half-
town and all his people live, with other chiefs, who always were, and
 still are, dissatisfied with the treaty of Fort Stanwix. They grew out
 of this land, and their fathers grew out of it, and they cannot be per-
suaded to part with it. We therefore entreat you to restore us this
 little piece. Father, Look at the land which we gave to you at that treaty, and
 then cast your eyes upon what we now ask you to restore us, and you
 will see that what we now ask is a very little piece. By giving it back
 again you will satisfy the whole of our nation. The chiefs who signed
 that treaty will be in safety - and peace between your children and
 our children will continue so long as your land shall continue to join
 our's. Every man in our nation will then turn his eyes away from all the
 other land that we then gave up to you, and forget that our fathers
 ever said that it belonged to them. Father, We see that you ought to have the path at the carrying-
place from Lake Erie to Niagara, as it was marked down at Fort Stan-
wix, and we are willing it should remain to be yours. And if you de-
sire to reserve a passage through the Conewango, and through the 
 Chautauque Lake, and land for a path from that Lake to Lake Erie,
 take it where you like best. Our nation will rejoice to see it an open
 path for you and your children, while the land and water remain: But
 let us pass along the same way, and continue to take the fish of these
 waters in common with you. Father, You say that you will appoint an agent to take care of
 us - let him come and take care of our trade, but we desire he may
 have nothing to do with our land; for the agents who have come among
 us, and pretended to take care of us, have always deceived us when-
ever we sold lands: both when the King and when the separate states
 have bargained with us: They have, by this means, occasioned many
 wars, and we are, therefore, unwilling to trust them again. Father, When we return home, we will call a great council, and
 consider well how lands may be hereafter sold by our nation, and when
 we have agreed upon it, we will send you notice thereof-but we de-
 sire that you will not depend upon your agent for information concern-
ing lands; for after the abuses which we have received from such men,
 we will not trust them with anything concerning lands. Father, We will not hear lies concerning you, and we desire you
 will not hear lies concerning us, and then we shall certainly live in
 peace with you. Father, Our nation has long looked round for a father, but they
 found none that would own them for his children, until you now tell us
 that your courts are open for us as to your own people. The joy that
 we feel on this great news so mixes with the sorrows that are past, that
 we cannot express our gladness, nor conceal the remembrance of our
 affliction - we will speak of it at another time. Father, We are ashamed that we have listened to L-----n's lies,
 or been influenced by threats of war from P-----s, and would hide that
 whole transaction from the world and from ourselves, by quietly re-
ceiving what P-----s promised to give us for the land he cheated us of.
 But as P-----s will not pay us according to that fraudulent bargain, we
 must lay the whole proceeding before your court. When the evidence
 which we can produce is heard, we think it will appear that the whole
 bargain was founded upon lies which he placed one upon another - that
 the goods which he had charged to us, as part payment, were plunder-
ed from us - and that if P-----s was not directly concerned in the theft,
 he knew of it at the time, and concealed it from us, and that the per-
sons we confided in were bribed by him to deceive us in the bargain -
 and if these facts appear, your courts will not say that such bargains
 are just, but set the whole aside. Father, the blood that was spilt near Pine Creek, is covered, and
 we shall never look where it lies. We know that Pennsylvania will
 satisfy us for that which we speak to them, wherefore we speak to you.
 The chain of friendship will now, we hope, be made strong, as you desire
 it to be - we will hold it fast - our end of it shall never rust in our hands. Father, we told you what advice we gave to the people you are
 now at war with, and we now tell you that they have promised to come
 again next spring to our towns. We shall not wait for their coming,
 but set out very early in the season, and how them what you have
 done for us, which must convince them that you will do for them every
 thing that they ought to ask. We think they will hear us and forward
 our advice. Father, you gave us leave to speak our minds concerning the till-
ing of the ground - we ask you to teach us to plough and to grind corn,
 and supply us with broad axes, saws, augers, and other tools to assist us
 in building a saw mill, that we may make our houses more comfortable
 and more durable. That you will send smiths among us, and above all
 that you will teach our children to read and write, and our women to
 spin and weave. The manner of doing these things for us we leave to
 you who understand them, but we assure you that we will follow your
 advice as far as we are able. To this second speech the President made them a written reply, stat-
ing, among other things, that he could not disannul treaties made with
 the United States before his administration, and that, therefore, the
 boundaries marked by the treaty of Fort Stanwix must remain esta-
blished. He assured them an agent should be appointed who would not
 be suffered to defraud them, or assist in defrauding them of their land;
 and concluded, by saying - You may, when you return from this city to your own country,
 mention to your nation my desire for their prosperity by teaching them
 the use of domestic animals, and the manner that the white people
 plough and raise so much corn, and if, upon consideration, it would be
 agreeable to the nation at large to learn these valuable arts, I will find
 such means of teaching them, at such a place within their country as
 shall be agreed upon. To the great counsellor of the Thirteen Fires. The speech of Corn-
planter, Half-town , and Big Tree . Father, no Seneca ever goes from the fire of his friend until he has
 said to him I am going. We therefore tell you that we are now set-
ting out for our own country. Father, we thank you from our hearts that we now know there is
 a country we may call our own, and on which we may lay down in
 peace. We see that there will be peace between your children and
 our children, and our hearts are very glad. We will persuade the
 Wyandots and other western nations to open their eyes, and look to-
 wards the bed which you have made for us, and to ask of you a bed for
 themselves and their children, that will not slide from under them. Father, we thank you for your presents to us, and rely on your pro-
mise to instruct us in raising corn as the white people do. The sooner
 you do this the better for us, and we thank you for the care which you
 have taken to prevent bad people from coming to trade among us. If
 any come without your license, we will turn them back, and we hope
 our nation will determine to spill all the rum that shall hereafter be
 brought to our towns. Father, you have not asked of us any surety for peace on our part,
 but we have agreed to send nine Seneca boys to be under your care for
 education - tell us at what time you will receive them, and they shall
 be sent at that time. This will assure you that we are indeed at peace
 with you, and determined to continue so. If you can teach them to be
 wise and good men, we will take care that our nation shall be willing
 to be instructed by them. Signed in the presence of Joseph Nicholson , interpreter.
 Attest, Thomas Proctor , Timothy Matlack . Philadelphia,February 7th, 1791. The foregoing extracts may serve to show the strong point of view
 in which the faith of the United States was pledged to protect the In-
dians in their rightful possessions. And this interview with the Presi-
dent opened the way for the introduction of civilized habits among the
 Seneca nation of Indians, subsequently commenced and prosecuted by
 the society of Friends. Some account of their proceedings may here-
after be given, in which the writer of this was for many years actively
 engaged. It is, in the first place, his design to give a sketch of their
 manners and customs, at the time these operations were commenced -
 being the result of observation, during his residence and frequent visits
 among the Seneca nation, as well as from the most authentic infor-
mation collected from other well acquainted with their habits and
 manners. This sketch, written many years ago, will consist in a brief view of
 their persons, dress, houses, provisions - hardships imposed upon the fe-
males, economy, intercourse with one another, treatment of their chil-
dren, employment of the men - hunting, their belief in the Great Spirit,
 opinion of the evil spirit, place of happiness after death, place of punish-
ment, religious ceremonies, sacrifices, mourning for the dead, supersti-
tious notions, banquets, marriages, government, mode of appointing
 chiefs, punishments, hyeroglyphics, idea of the globe, &c. Manners and Customs of the Seneca Nation of Indians, in the year 1800. In their persons, the Senecas are generally of a moderate stature
 and well proportioned, though instances of dwarfishness and deformity
 are sometimes to be seen among them. Their complexion is of a cop-
per colour, and the hair black - that of the men being generally cut
 close, excepting a small tuft on the crown of the head, which is suf-
fered to grow long, and is tied in a small roll on the top, on which they
 frequently wear a silver tube, about three inches in length. Some,
 also, let small locks grow obliquely projecting over their shoulders.
 They very generally extract their beards by means of a spiral spring
 ring made of wire, about the common knitting needle size, and about
 two inches in length; this being applied to the face, and pressed be-
tween the thumb and finger, forms a kind of pincers, and takes so fast
 hold of the beard as readily to extract it. This is also frequently made
 use of to extract the hair from the head instead of cutting, and some-
times the operation is performed between their thumb and the blunt
 edge of a knife. Their eyes are black, keen, and penetrating - their countenance open
 and engaging in general, and a great object of their vanity is, to give
 every possible decoration to their persons, by painting their faces a 
 variety of colours, among which vermilion and charcoal are their
 favourites. They most generally use the red, but streaks of black are occasion-
ally intermixed. Black mostly denotes trouble; but the red, though it
 makes them look fierce, as in time of disturbance, is expressive of war â€“ 
 so it is also used to denote cheerfulness, and sometimes to hide the true
 expression of the countenance - and in this way, when rubbed round
 the eyes, it has a wonderful effect. Their dress is simple and commodious. It consists of tight leggings
 reaching above the knee, made of cloth or flannel - a strip of cloth
 about a foot wide and three or four feet long, according to the size of
 the person, is drawn inwards at each end, and hangs down behind and
 before, over a belt tied round the waist for that purpose - the outward
 ends of this are frequently ornamented with silver brooches. A close
 vest or shirt reaching somewhat below the waist, made of linen or
 calico, and in some instances a short waistcoat, with an overcoat of cloth,
 or blanketing, (which they call match-coat,) clumsily made, and the
 addition of moccasins on their feet, and a cap on their head, mostly
/ complete their apparel. The materials of their dress, however, vary
 according to the season. In warm weather they are very thinly
 clad, and in the winter they generally wrap their blanket round them,
 in addition to their other clothing. At times, their head dress is cu-
riously ornamented with large feathers, and the tails of wild animals,
 projecting from their ears sideways, some erect, and others flowing be-
hind them. These habiliments are put on, however, as their caprice
 suggests, and are generally worn at their feasts and sacrifices, or on ex-
peditions to distant parts, when they make the most antic appearance. The female dress is formed of much the same material as that of
 the other sex, but of somewhat different make and arrangement. They
 wear moccasins on their feet, and their leggings are fastened
 below the knee. An open garment descending about half down the leg, is fastened
 round them by a belt at the waist, and the upper part turned down-
wards, reaching near to the knee, which part is often covered with ri-
bands or embellished with silver brooches, with a considerable degree
 of skill and taste. They wear a short frock or vest, reaching to the waist, flowing
 loose about them, and when their business will admit, their blanket is
 spread over the whole, and serves them both night and day. Divers
 of their garments are fancifully fringed and ornamented with needle
 work, set in with beads and porcupine quills, variegated and disposed
 with much skill and ingenuity. Their hair is left to grow at full length,
 generally falls back, and is tied up in a knot behind, care being taken
 to apply to it plentifully of the fat of the bear. Their head-dress con-
sists principally of a simple cap, or hood, made of cloth, or old blanket-
ing, secured together, at one end, and flowing round their neck and
 shoulders; but these are seldom worn by the females, except in cold
 weather. Their houses are of different dimensions, from ten to thirty feet
 in length, but narrow in proportion. They are built of poles, or small
 logs, being about six feet to the square of the eve, and covered with a
 very steep roof of bark, which they take off the tree in very broad
 pieces, five or six feet long, mostly chestnut, hemlock, or cucumber.
 They generally take it from the tree, shave the outside off, and lay it in
 a horizontal pile to press, some time before they use it. The rafters are made of round poles, the lower end dovetailed in the
 top log - tied together at the top, and crossed again at smaller dis-
tances by other poles, on which are laid the bark, which is tied to the
 poles with the inside rind of hickory or other strong bark. Two courses thus laid on, generally cover one side of the house, and
 the ridge of the roof is made tight by laying broad pieces lengthways,
 and tying them down as aforesaid. A roof of good bark, thus put on,
 will stand water proof for several years, and the labour of renewing it
 is not very considerable in a country where timber abounds. In a long
 house, the logs are joined together at the ends by means of a gutter
 post, which stands perpendicular about midway on each side of the
 building, and are neatly notched down at the corners. Some
 who wish to live more secure from the cold winds, stop the interme-
diate spaces with moss. The door is almost invariably at one end of
 the house, the logs being all cut off except the top and bottom ones,
 and fitted into gutter posts, which serve for door cheeks. Two births
 or shelvings are made on each side of the house, the lower one about
 one foot from the ground, on which they lodge, and the other about five
 feet high, on which they throw their household furniture, provisions,
 &c. The fire is built in the centre of the house, and a hole left in the
 roof directly over it to vent the smoke. There are girders supported by
 upright timbers, on which they hang up their corn to dry; a cross-
piece of timber again rests on these, from which withs and wooden
 hooks are suspended to hang their kettles on, over the fire, wherein they
 cook their provisions. Some had wigwams,* the walls as well as roofs of which were con-
structed of bark, supported by small poles stuck in the ground, to which
 the bark was fastened - the inside of the house much on the same con-
struction as the former. These were not very common in their villages,
 but more generally occupied as a temporary residence, when in the
 woods making sugar, or as a hunting encampment. The third month, is generally their season for making sugar, when
 whole families retire into the woods contiguous to a grove of sugar
 maple, the sap of which they extract, by making an incision into the
 trunk near the ground, and convey it, by means of a small tube, into
 troughs set for the purpose. This is collected and taken to the camp,
 where it is boiled in large kettles till reduced to sugar, and when clean-
liness is observed in the operation, they will make this valuable article
 of an excellent flavour and quality. The sap runs most plentifully in
 a clear sunshine, after a cold frosty night - but a damp wind from the
 southward checks the flowing of the sap immediately. At this season the Indians remain several weeks in the woods, and
 the men assist the women in the labour of making sugar, besides at-
tending to their hunting, to procure supplies of meat. They also trap
 those amphibious and other animals, which furnish furs, and especially
 the beaver, the meat of which they esteem a luxury. *The Delaware word for house. The females, who are subject, (as amongst other uncivilized nation)
 to almost every kind of domestic drudgery, are industrious in the culture
 of Indian corn, beans, squashes, melons, potatoes, and many other vege-
tables. And although each family have their separate piece of ground
 to cultivate with the hoe, and hold the fruit of their industry as distinct
 property, yet they frequently join in large companies to assist each
 other, on which occasions they are remarkably loquacious and lively,
 as also expert in using the hoe, each patiently assisting her neighbour,
 till her own turn comes in rotation. Thus they enjoy a kind of con-
vivial intercourse, which greatly tends to ameliorate the weight of la-
bour assigned them, and in many instances no doubt, affords them a
 satisfaction equal to, if not surpaaaing that enjoyed by many of the white
 female in their most social entertainments. The vegetables which they raise with the hoe, with some fish caught
 in the river, generally compose a great part of their provision in the
 summer season. Venison was not at all time to be procured plentifully,
 and even when obtained, by hunting, they had no way of preserving it,
 in the warm weather, except by drying it over the fire, into what they
 call jerk. This is sometimes done in the woods, at their hunting camps
 - by means of a kind of rack made of small sticks, over the fire, or by
 sharpening the sticks at both ends and setting them in the ground, near
 the fire, with the meat stuck on the upper end. Salt at this time was
 a scarce article among them, and not to be procured but at an ex-
travagant price, yet it is an article of which they are very fond, and
 what little they were enabled to obtain was frequently carried with
 them, carefully tied up in one corner of their clothes, and used sparing-
ly. Their venison was often eaten without salt, bread, or vegetables;
 and as they are not delicate in their palate, they often feast, apparently
 with a relish, on meat highly tainted. They were not observed to be
 early risers in the morning; they seldom eat more than two meals a
 day, and those morning and evening. Their meals principally consist
 of soups, made of squashes, beans, hominy, and other vegetables; also
 of meat cut in small pieces, when it can be procured. This dish is then
 served up in wooden bowls, and supped with wooden ladles; the eldest
 of the male part of the family being generally served first, and thus in
 rotation, to the youngest - afterwards the females partake in a similar
 manner. On some extraordinary occasions, they sweeten their soups
 with sugar. This article they are very fond of; and as they make it
 in cakes of near a pound weight, they frequently carry it with them,
 and eat it like cheese, with bread, or sweeten water to drink. When their new corn becomes fit for use, which is generally in the
 ninth-month, they feast plentifully on it, sometimes boiling it, as usual
 among white people, and also make soup or dumplings of it, while in a
 milky state. The process of the latter is, to cut it off the cob and tie
 it up in small cakes, in the corn husks, mixed with whortleberries or
 dried blackberries, and boiled like a pudding. This when seasoned
 with a little salt, makes a palatable food, and with the addition of some
 bear's fat, is to them a luxury. Their bread is made of corn meal, into which they put bean, mix
 it up with hot water, and bake it in the embers. They also parch
 their corn, pound it fine, and mix sugar with it. This is a delicacy
 even with white people, and frequently forms a part of the Indian's
 travelling provisions; wanting no other preparation for eating, than
 wetting it with water. They raise a kind of small round squash, which
 they boil or roast in the embers, and which, in taste, resembles a sweet
 potato; and these they not only use in the autumn, but preserve nearly
 through the winter. In times of scarcity, they are often reduced to the
 necessity of gathering wild roots and herbs, on which they subsist. In
 short, a great variety, prepared in the most simple manner, composed
 their provisions. Almost every kind of fowl, fish, and flesh are eaten
 by them; even some amphibious animals - and the beaver, especially
 - as before stated, was esteemed a luxury. Having no mills in their country, the women reduced their corn to
 meal, by pounding it in wooden mortars, and sifting it in a sieve made
 of wooden splints. The pounders were made of hard wood, and of dif-
ferent weights, according to the size and strength of the woman; and
 frequently three of them would be engaged in one block at the same
 time, and regulate their strokes in alternation. The females also cut their firewood and carry it home on their
 backs; and about some of their ancient villages, oftentimes from a quar-
ter to a half mile distance. This being an arduous part of the task as-
signed them, they frequently join in large companies to assist each other;
 and to those who have not been eye-witnesses, it might appear incredi-
ble to relate the size and weight of the burthens they carry tied up in
 a belt, which bears on the forehead; the wood being suspended across
 the back, as the females incline forward. The young girls are not ex-
empted from this service, but carry small burthens in proportion to
 their strength; and these female labourers knowing the task assigned
 them, are economical in procuring their wood in the summer, or early
 in the fall; having it split up small, carried home, and piled round the
 house, or often under a shed made for the purpose. This would be
 thought insupportable, by the females of some, if not all civilized na-
tions; but custom and necessity have made it quite familiar to these
 sprightly inhabitants of the wilderness. The economy of the women in procuring sustenance, far exceeds that
 of the men, as they carefully collect almost every natural or sponta-
 neous production of their country, suitable for the support of human
 life, and lay up against times of scarcity, which sometimes occur, and
 more frequently in the fore part of summer. For though many of them
 raise a competence of corn, to serve, with frugality, the year round, yet
 others fall short - using their supply so liberally, it is exhausted before
 the new corn is fit for use; still trusting to the hazard of procuring food
 from their native forests. When an Indian entered the house of his friend, it was common to
 set before him such provisions as were cooked, and if while he was
 eating, several of his associates came in, he divided it in equal parts
 amongst them; reserving his own proportion. When he is about to
 leave his friend, he tells him he is going, which amounts to farewell;
 but if any circumstance takes place which has given umbrage, he with-
draws, and says nothing. This is clear evidence that he is offended. They appear to be naturally as well calculated for social and rational
 enjoyment, as any people. --They frequently visit each other in their
 houses, and spend much of their time in friendly intercourse. They are also mild and hospitable, not only among themselves, but
 to strangers, and good natured in the extreme, except when their na-
ture are perverted by the inflammatory influence of spirituous liquors.
 In their social interviews, as well as public council, they are careful
 not to interrupt one another in conversation, and generally make short
 speeches. This truly laudable mark of good manners, enables them to
 transact all their public business with decorum and regularity, and more
 strongly impresses on their mind and memory, the result of their delibe-
rations. Probably it is from this circumstance that they are enabled,
 without the aid of literature, to retain in their memory, and transmit
 their transactions from one generation to another; thus one of their
 chiefs, speaking in public council , will relate with precision, circum-
stances that have taken place among their ancestors for several gene-
rations past. Although they appear to possess tender feelings for their children,
 they inure them to hardships, while in an infant state, by frequently
 immersing them in cold water. Being indulged in most of their wishes,
 as they grow up, liberty, in its fullest extent, becomes their ruling pas-
sion. They are seldom chastened with blows, or treated with restraint
 or correction. Their faults are mostly left for their own reason to cor-
rect when they are grown up - which faults, they say, cannot be very
 great, before reason arrives at some degree of maturity. If, however,
 they prove too obstinate, they sometimes plunge them in the river; and
 if one dip is not sufficient to conquer or quiet them, it is repeated, till
 the end is effected. As the child gets a little older, they will sometimes
 talk to it a long while, endeavouring to impress on its mind what it
 ought to do, and what to leave undone. At other times, they ridicule
 their children for doing wrong, and tell them they are not wise in doing
 so. And one remarkable trait in the character of the children, is, that
 they are generally good humoured among themselves, and children of
 the same family show strong attachments to each other, and are less
 liable to quarrel in their youthful days than is generally the case with
 white children. The father, although he assumes little command over his sons, is
 nevertheless anxious to instruct them in the necessary qualifications for
 hunting, &c. while the mothers are equally attentive to their daugh-
ters, in teaching them every thing that is considered necessary to their
 character and mode of living. On taking a view of their situation, one would naturally suppose the
 life of these women was an uninterrupted scene of toil and pain, which,
 indeed, in a great measure, it really is; for, besides attending to the
 usual labours of the field, and every culinary service, the duties of ma-
ternal care are added, and require a considerable part of their atten-
tion - the men assuming very little of the parental trust. Providence seems, in a remarkable manner, to have furnished these
 females with strength and fortitude adequate to their situation; for, at
 those times when the females of civilized nations require the most ten-
der care and solicitude, these hardy daughters of the forest have little
 or no respite from their usual labours. Their children are frequently born in the woods, where the woman,
 accompanied by an elderly female, retires on the occasion, and if in
 cold weather a fire is made. The babe is immediately wrapt in a blan-
ket, and generally, in a few hours, the mother returns with it to her
 own habitation, and engages in her usual employment, without any ap-
parent injury to her health, or constitution. In the nursing of their children, a very considerable degree of inge-
nuity is manifested; and for convenience of carrying, as also to keep
 the limbs of the young child straight, they confine it with it back to a
 board, made for the purpose; and often fancifully decorated with va-
rious trinkets, and embroidery. This board is about two feet and a
 half in length, and one in breadth, with a little hoop in front, to protect
 the head and face of the child, from which also they suspend a curtain
 to cover it from flies or cold. At the bottom is a small foot-board, on
 which the child is placed in an erect posture, with its hand down its
 sides. It is then swathed with a bandage of cloth, from the feet to the
 chin, so tight as to be unable to disengage itself. If the weather is cold,
 the skin of some animal, with soft fur on it, is put next to it; and if a
 female, a small block is placed between the heels to give the toes an
 inclination inwards, but if a male, they endeavour to keep the feet in
 a direction straight forward. One consequence of this is, that the
 track of the different sexes may easily be distinguished. In this vehi-
cle, their children are carried about at pleasure, suspended down the
 back by a belt, which comes round the forehead of the mother. When
 taken to the woods, or fields, they are occasionally set up against trees
 or stumps, while the mother is employed in her customary labours.
 Sometimes they are suspended by the four corners to poles laid hori-
zontally on forks stuck in the ground. In this position they are drawn
 backwards and forward, a little similar to rocking in a cradle, and on
 all occasions they are careful to prevent their children, as much as may
 be, from crying. They are loosened from the board a few times in the
 day; but being so accustomed to this confinement, and so perfectly at
 ease in it, they become uneasy when taken out, and their tranquillity
 is restored when replaced. This mode of confinement is continued
 about nine months, and is not only advantageous in the nursery, but
 also in carrying them with more ease and security. The chief employment of the men was hunting and fishing, making
 canoes, building their houses, dressing deer skin, making bowl, &c.
 in all which they were ingenious, considering the tools they had to work
 with. In their hunting excursions, they generally take their wives and
 families with them, and remain several weeks in the woods, sometimes
 twenty, forty, or even one hundred miles from their villages, and gene-
rally up or down a river, or some large stream of water, where they
 can go in canoes. And their household furniture being mostly porta-
ble, they carry as much with them as answers their purpose during
 their hunting tour. On getting to the place they have chosen for a
 hunting ground, they erect a temporary shed, generally so situated as
 to command an extensive view of the river, or some smaller stream,
 where they may have a favourable opportunity of seeing the deer, or
 other wild animals pass and repass, and thus it frequently happens, that
 they have an opportunity of shooting them from the door of their cabin. The man sets out in the morning, generally taking his course along
 some stream of water, making, as he travels on, a kind of a way mark,
 by once in a while breaking down a bush; and in this way traverses
 the country for many miles in the course of the day, exploring the
 haunts of the deer or elk, as these animals resort to certain places called
 deer licks, with which the country abounds, where the water issuing
 from them is somewhat impregnated with salt. When the huntsman
 kills a deer, or other animal, he takes off the skin, which he generally
 carries with him; and, dividing the carcass in quarters, he hangs it
 up in a tree, and then makes his way to the path along the water
 course, breaking down the bushes from the deer, till he reaches it,
 where he scrapes with his feet in the leaves or snow, or otherwise in
 case of snow falling to cover his marks on the ground; he cuts down a
 bush, and sharpening a stick, sets it in a position pointing in a direct
 line to the deer he has killed; this furnishes a mark for his wife to find
 the game he has killed, whose business it is to carry it home to their
 camp. He then pursues his hunting again, and if he kills several deer
 in the course of the day, he marks the way from each in the same man-
ner to the main path by the water; and in the evening returns to his
 cabin tired with his day's toil, where his wife furnishes him with a sup-
per of such as she has to prepare. He then relates the success that
 has attended him through the day, regales himself with the fumes of
 tobacco, and retires to rest on a deer skin, in his native dignity, as abo-
riginal lord of the soil. If too late in the evening when he returns, his
 wife goes off next morning, directed by his marks where to find the
 deer he has killed, and brings them home on her back, one at a time,
 often from a great distance; but in the winter time, when they have
 great success in hunting, they leave much of the flesh in the woods,
 which is devoured by wolves, or other animals of prey. They sometimes watch the deer licks in the night season, where those
 animals more frequently resort than they do in the day time, and some-
times in great numbers. The huntsman take his station in the evening at a proper distance,
 and kindles a small fire, which he is careful to conceal, until he hears
 some deer in the lick, and then having some torches, or dry wood, pre-
sently makes the light shine round about, by which he can discover his
 prey, and the poor animals will stand gazing at the light, while he dis-
charges his gun at them. In this manner, they frequently kill several
 deer in a night. As the snow falls deep in their country, frequently from one to three
 feet, it renders travelling difficult in the winter. The Indians, there-
fore, have recourse to snow shoes, on which they can travel with much
 facility, and sometimes catch the deer by running them down, without
 either dog or gun. These snow shoes are made of a tough piece of wood curved before,
 and somewhat of an oval form, making a span of about two feet long,
 and perhaps one foot wide, in the middle. Two straight braces cross
 this again at proper distances to support the foot, and the intermediate
 spaces are laced with great neatness, with thongs of deer or elk skin.
 They vary in size according to the person wearing them. On these,
 the huntsman wanders over mountain, hill, and dale, in pursuit of the
 wild animals of the wood, and should he get benighted at too great a
 distance to reach his cabin, and has killed any deer, he strikes up a fire
 in the woods, and roasts a ham or shoulder of venison on a sharp stick
 stuck in the ground before it; beginning to eat as soon as one side is
 done, and sometimes continuing to eat, as his venison cooks, until he is
 satisfied or the whole is consumed. It is said that some of the hunters
 when very hungry, will eat a ham of venison without much difficulty.
 This, in part, may be accounted for, from their sometimes starving a
 long time - for in general they are moderate eaters. Religious Ceremonies, Government, &c. THE Indians believe in one all-wise, Supreme Being, who governs
 the universe; and that they will be made happy or miserable in a fu-
ture state, according as their conduct pleases or displeases him, in this
 state of existence. This all-wise being they call How-wa-neeo, or
 Great Spirit, and believe him to be the creator of all good things, the
 author of happiness, and the rewarder of all good actions, both in this
 world and in the next. They believe, also, that there is an evil spirit, which they call Nish-
shee-o-nee, who influences to bad actions, and who is the creator of all
 that is bad - such as venomous serpents, wolves, and all warlike beasts,
 poisonous weeds, bad thoughts and deeds, and every thing that is pro-
ductive of unhappiness, both in man and on the earth. They believe there is a place of happiness called in their language
 Hight-ca-a-nongay, and that, when they die, if their conduct has been
 orderly, and pleasing to the Great Spirit in this world, they are ad-
mitted into this happy region, among the spirits of good men and wo-
men, where the Great Spirit is their comforter and chief ruler - and
 that he there hangs about their necks a string of implements for hunt-
ing, and for providing themselves a comfortable living, and that they
 are sent to hunt in a warm country, where game is plenty, and the
 land fertile for corn, beans, and other vegetables. Twice in the year, arrayed in their best clothing, and decked with
 ornaments, they assemble at the town where their Chief lives, in order
 to render thanks to the Great Spirit for the favours which he hath con-
ferred upon them. Their stated period for these ceremonies are in
 the beginning of autumn, when their new corn, beans, squashes, pota-
toes, &c. are fit for use, and again about the middle of winter, when
 they generally return to their villages with the produce of their hunt-
ing expeditions. After they are generally collected, both men and women, with the
 children, an examination takes place, whether any uneasiness or dis-
satisfaction exist among them, and whether any have committed offences
 or evil acts. Of these it is often the case that the offender makes con-
fession, the design of which is, that all wrong things may be done away,
 and reconciliation take place, where any differences have occurred,
 and a promise on the part of the aggressor or to try to do better for the
 future; which done, the council then assembled forgive them. They then institute a dance round or near a wooden image, which
 stands a little distance from the Chief's door, being formed of a huge
 block of wood into the similitude of a man, and artfully painted; em-
bellished with skin, handkerchiefs, fine ribands, and feathers of a va-
riety of colours. Both sexes join promiscuously in the dance - two
 men being seated near the feet of the image, make music by pounding
 on a skin drawn over the mouth of a kettle, or some other vessel, the
 sound of which has some resemblance to that of a drum. As they
 move round in a circle, each one has a spoon, ladle, or some other in-
strument in the left hand, and frequently give a frightful halloo or
 scream. The men are all naked from the waist up, and their bodies
 painted a variety of hues. They have also various kind of trinkets
 suspended from their ears and noses, and abundance of ornaments, such
 as belt and deer's hoofs strung like beads, fastened about their legs,
 which make a great rattle during the process of the dance. After a day pent at this general rendezvous, they divide into smaller
 companies, men and women apart, and keep up the dance in each
 house in the town. These dancing companies are preceded by two
 men appointed for the purpose, who are dressed in the most frightful
 manner imaginable, being covered with bear skins, and a bag of ashes
 tied round their middle, behind them, with a hole to suffer the ashes to
 fly about as they move. Their faces are covered with a large painted
 mask, having a high mane on the crown, made of long coarse horse
 hair standing almost erect, and large eyes encircled with a flame-co-
loured ring. The mouth is open, and shows their own teeth, with
 which they grin in a terrific manner, and their hands are blackened so
 as to leave the marks on every person they lay them on. They carry
 the shell of a mud tortoise, which has been dried for the purpose, with
 a stick thrust through it, which stretches the neck and large head to
 their full extent, and inside of the shell are a quantity of pebbles, with
 which they make a wonderful rattle. These men go from house to house, and rub this shell on the sides
 and up and down the door posts. They also frequently enter into the
 house, but say nothing, nor do any injury. As they travel about, if
 they meet with any person, male or female, in their way, they pursue
 them - those who turn and receive them in a friendly way, they shake
 hands with, but say nothing - but it is rather expected that many
 should run as if terrified; these are pursued, and if overtaken before
 they get into a house, are laid hold of, and blackened with their hands,
 but no other injury is offered, and, except a frightful yelling noise, no-
thing is spoken. The design of these frightful representations is, to personify and imi-
 tate the bad spirit, and to remind the Indians of the necessity to amend
 their ways, and avoid all wrong things. After this concert of heathenish superstition has continued for seve-
ral days, they assemble again round the wooden image* near the coun-
 cil house, and sacrifice a dog, first decorating him with strings of wam-
 pum, fine ribands, and some paintings; and after hanging him on the
 image, burn him to ashes, on a fire kindled near him for the purpose.
 On some extraordinary occasions, they eat the flesh of the dog, and a
 white dog is always preferred, as being deemed a more acceptable of-
 fering. While the dog is consuming, they dance round the fire, making a
 dreadful yelling and whooping, and during the process of the dance,
 about one pound of tobacco, of a particular kind, rubbed fine, which
 they consider as peculiarly agreeable to the Great Spirit, is thrown on
 the fire, in the smoke whereof, their aspirations, as they suppose, as-
 cending, they believe are heard by the Great Spirit, and are offered,
 together with their dancing, under a profession of pleasing him. During this ascension of the smoke, a Chief whom they call their
 minister, and who appears to have the command and superintendence
 of this ceremony, addresses the Great Spirit in a speech, the purport
 of which is an acknowledgment for favours received, thanks for pre-
 servation in times past, and imploring his continued care and protection. *About the year 1802 this image, decaying at the ground, fell down. This circum-
stance occasioned very considerable agitation among them, to know in what manner to
 dispose of it, without giving offence to the Great Spirit; as they considered it to be his
 representative. Some were for taking it into the woods, and leaving plenty of provi-
sions beside it. Others were for erecting another in its stead, and some were for dis-
carding such a representation entirely. A son of Cornplanter , the Chief, who had got his ideas a little expanded by an edu-
cation among white people, reasoned with them on the subject, and told them that it
 had grown up in the woods like other trees of the forest; that they had cut it down,
 and made it into the form of a man, but it was still nothing but a block of wood, and
 had no power or sense, and, therefore, could not represent the Great Spirit, as they
 imagined; and if they would give it up to him, he would dispose of it. To this they
 reluctantly consented, and on conditions only, that he would take all the responsibility
 of any harm happening the nation in consequence thereof. Accordingly he tumbled
 it into the river, and let it swim down, the Indians carefully viewing the process, to see
 whether any evil would befall him. Some time after, several of them passing along the river, discovered it lodged on an
 island, about eleven miles below its former station, at which they appeared struck with
 astonishment, and considerably alarmed, but let it remain as they found it. He then addresses the people, advising them how they ought to con-
duct, and pointing out some of the prominent evils which they ought to
 avoid; one of the greatest of these is stealing, and another is, for the
 husband to desert and separate himself from his wife during pregnancy;
 but taking the life of another is not considered a crime so capital, as
 they are left at liberty to revenge it, by taking the life of the murder-
er. This may be done with impunity by the nearest relative of the
 deceased, and they then consider the cries of blood to be done away.
 Preparatory to these sacrifices they are careful to procure a sufficien-
cy of provisions. This is done by deputing a certain number of their warriors to hunt,
 who encircle a large space of hunting ground, and all the game taken
 thereon is devoted to this feast. Previously to that which was held in
 the summer of 1799, thirty men were sent out, who returned the day
 following with seventeen deer. Great attention is paid to the cooking,
 and certain places are appointed where the entertainment shall be
 given. Spirituous liquors are not allowed on these occasions, although
 near the conclusion there are instances, at times, of some of them get-
ting intoxicated. Their stated time, according to ancient custom, for holding these sa-
crifices, is four days at a time, twice in the year; but they frequently
 continue their feasting and dancing at intervals and by companies, for
 eight or ten days; and, after the last day being spent in playing at
 games of chance, they generally conclude by the firing of guns. Their reason for performing these ceremonious rites, at these two
 seasons of the year, they say, is to return thanks to the Great Spirit,
 for sending them plenty of bread and meat - that it was the way their
 forefathers had taught them, and they knew of no better; and although
 the feast is conducted with considerable noise, and apparent confusion,
 it is also attended at intervals with much solemnity, and on the part of
 many of them, purely on a religious ground, and from sincere and good
 motives. But, at the same time, they are willing to acknowledge that
 their worship was not performed with so much solemnity as their fore-
fathers practised. Besides their public devotional feasts and sacrifices, the Indians ex-
ercise a kind of family worship, at times, when they are sitting together,
 particularly in the evening. If one of the heads of the family feels an
 impulse to address the Great Spirit, he, or she, yields to it with an au-
dible voice, and this, among the more serious class, is frequently per-
formed, though not on any stated days or times. They are sometimes
 exercised in this way when their friends are with them, and the subject
 of aspiration is a thanksgiving for the preservation of their particular
 family or tribe, and for supplying the varied necessaries and comforts
 of life, desiring their continuance; an evidence, this, that among all
 their superstition and ignorance, they are not destitute of the divine
 principle operating within them, and raising in their minds a sense of
 their dependent state, the obligations they are under to their great pre-
 server and benefactor, and the necessity of prayer for the continua-
 tion of his blessings and favours. Though much reserved in expression, with regard to abstruse subjects,
 they nevertheless at times manifest an inquisitive disposition respecting
 the creation of the world, the formation of man, and whether Indians
 and white people go to the same place after death, or whether they
 will be all of one language in a future state. Their funeral rites are observed with great solemnity, and succeeded
 by deep mourning. Whatever might have been their ancient custom,
 as stated by some writers with respect to a place of general deposit of
 the bones of their dead, I find no such tradition among them at the pre-
sent day. A spot of ground contiguous to each village is occupied as a
 place of interment, and each grave has a separate covering of boards,
 or clefts of wood. The corpse dressed in the best apparel is put into a
 coffin made of boards, when they can be procured, or otherwise bark
 laid beneath and over it in the grave, and sometimes a new blanket
 and small kettle is enclosed with it, and frequently other articles, to
 which the deceased was attached while living. As they believe in the resurrection of the spirit, and that for some
 time after death it is common for it to ascend and descend, in order,
 therefore, to afford it more easy access to its former tabernacle, a hole
 is cut in both the head of the coffin and the covering of the tomb, the
 ground not being considered as any obstruction to its entrance or egress. At these mourning processions, the women, who more generally at-
tend than the men, and have the task of burial assigned them, give
 every possible vent to their passions, as also when they return to the
 house of the deceased, where they indulge in feasting, and extremity of
 grief; and this is renewed by the female relatives, and neighbours meet-
ing at the same house every morning, for nine days, and kept up by
 doleful noises and lamentable cries, for about the space of half an hour.
 When the days of mourning are thus ended, they meet together, and
 are consoled to dry up their tears, from which time they endeavour to
 discard all marks of lamentation. They relate circumstances that happened formerly, of ancient In-
dians, who were disabled from hunting, by infirmity, and becoming tired
 of life, would request to be buried alive. A grave or hole was then
 dug, in which a seat was formed in digging, the ancient Indian was then
 let down, and taking his last seat, the other Indians began to fill in the
 earth, doing it very gently and tenderly till it had risen to his chin. A
 pause was then made, and some ceremony used, after which the young
 warriors threw in the dirt very hastily, so as to prevent their being
 witnesses to his struggles, and to terminate his sufferings as speedily as
 possible. Happily there exists no such barbarous custom among them
 at the present day. They are superstitious in the extreme, with re-
 spect to dreams, and witchcraft, and councils are often called, on the
 most trifling occurrences of this nature. To elucidate this - in the win-
ter of 1799, while one of the Friends was engaged in instructing the
 children in school learning, a message carne from a confederate tribe,
 eighty miles distant, stating that one of their little girls had dreamed
 that â€œthe devil was in all white people alike, and that they ought not
 to receive instruction from the Quakers, neither was it right for their
 children to learn to read and write.â€ In consequence of this circum-
stance, a council was called, the matter was deliberated on, and divers
 of them became so much alarmed, as to prevent their children from
 attending the school for some time. They are also in the practice of collecting together and making feasts
 in remembrance of their dead, some months after the interment, under
 an apprehension that the deceased will receive some benefit thereby.
 And if an Indian of any particular tribe dreams a remarkable dream,
 respecting a deceased relative being hungry, or in need of sympathy,
 or assistance in any way, the Indians of the deceased's particular tribe
 are informed of it, and a deputation is sent out to hunt. The game
 thus taken, is prepared and cooked, and a feast and dance in a religious
 way is instituted, which continues for a day or more, whereby they ap-
prehend the wants of the deceased are satisfied. Exclusive of these, they have frequent banquets, in which they re-
gale themselves with strong liquors, and pass whole nights in singing,
 dancing, and music - performing every whimsical and antic manÅ“uvre
 which their wild imaginations can invent, and which in some instances
 baffles description. Their marriages are as singularly conducted as their worship, and
 funerals. They generally marry young, the males frequently between
 fourteen and eighteen, and the females from twelve to sixteen. The
 match is frequently agreed upon by the parents, while the children
 are quite young, in which case they are betrothed without consulting
 each other's choice, or inclination. When they arrive at maturer age
 before the choice is made, and a young man has fixed on the female
 he wishes to make his companion, he acquaints his mother or eldest
 sister, if he has either living, or otherwise some female relative, of his
 intentions, who imparts his desires to the mother or sister, or other fe-
male relative of her with whom he is enamoured, and this proposal they
 communicate to the young woman. It is also common to present her or her father with some kind of
 trinkets or merchandise to the value of several dollars. If his proposal
 of marriage is not accepted, a negative is put upon it by returning the
 present, but if, after some days consideration, it is satisfactory to the
 young woman and parties concerned, her mother or sister accompanies
 her to the young man's home, and presents her to him. The mother
 or sister then withdraws, and she stays with her proposed husband.
 They appear apparently shy of each other, and now perhaps their in-
timacy and knowledge of each other's qualifications are only commenc-
ing. No ideas of state and grandeur - no homage of wealth - no pride
 of house or furniture are sought for, on these occasions. The man
 having signalized himself by feats of hunting, and the woman by her
 industry in the culture of corn and vegetables, are the criteria and
 summit to which their wishes aspire. As the season for planting, tend-
ing, and gathering corn, procuring firewood, &c. come on, the female
 connexions of the young woman assist her in the different operations
 during the first year, at the end of which, without any other ceremony,
 the nuptial tie is consummated and considered valid and honourable.
 They sometimes, however, take a shorter way for it, and too commonly
 part again on small disagreements. Although they appear to be natu-
rally lively in their dispositions, and well calculated for social inter-
course, yet the different sexes are very jealous, and apparently shy of
 each other, so that it is rare to see a man and woman, even of the same
 tribe, conversing together without witnesses. And when a woman has
 occasion to go from home, it is accounted honourable to take with her
 one or more children to testify, if needful, that she has been orderly.
 There are too many proofs, however, that this is only a pretended shy-
ness, yet being sanctioned, and established by custom, it is productive
 of serious evils, by putting a negative on an open, friendly acquaint-
ance of the sexes, with each other, the natural tendency whereof would
 be, the mutual improvement of their minds, and furnish a knowledge
 of each other's qualifications, which in many instances would produce
 undesigned and permanent attachments. Whereas they frequently
 marry without real affection, without a knowledge of each other's dis-
positions, and before the judgment is ripe for such a choice; the con-
sequence of which is that separations often take place - so that there
 are many instances among them, of men who have turned off several
 wives, and of women who have discarded as many husbands. These
 on both sides marry again (in a clandestine way) to others, and in some
 instances change back again, and thus what ought to be esteemed the
 most important connexion in life, is lightly formed and dissolved, and
 shifted about in a manner unknown among any people rightly civilized. When such separations take place, the mother generally takes the
 children, and I believe their property also descends by inheritance, in
 the female line of succession. It is said that, formerly, when an Indian of distinction died, his gun,
 blanket, knife, and other property, not buried with him, were preserved
 about twelve, and sometimes eighteen months. This delay was occa-
sioned, in consequence of an opinion which they entertained, that it was
 not decent or respectful to bring them into use sooner; they were then
 sent into council, and held up to public view, the Indians present being
 informed that they were the goods of such a deceased chief. On the
 articles being thus severally held up, any of the young men who inclined,
 were at liberty to advance and snatch them away, till the whole were
 thus distributed, the relatives of the deceased making no claim in con-
sequence of connexion. This custom though grown out of use among
 the Senecas, is said still to prevail among some Indian nations, in the
 southern states. Although they have no regular system of laws by which they are
 governed, and every man is master in his own family, yet they are more
 or less influenced by certain principles which conduce to their general
 benefit. They possess their land in common, and no individual has any
 further security for the improvement he makes on the land, than what
 custom has established. This, however, is held inviolable, and no in-
stance occurred in the course of my observation, of their encroaching
 on each other's property, without consent of parties; and if disputes
 at any time happen with respect to the boundaries of the land they
 wish to cultivate, the interference of the chiefs settles the difference. The Seneca nation is composed of eight great families or tribes.
 These are designated by the names of Bear, Wolf, Deer, Crane, Snipe,
 Beaver, Turtle, and Hawk tribes. Each tribe proposes its own chiefs,
 and brings forward all other matters in council that particularly relate
 to their own people. The different tribes have each at least one Chief
 to represent them in council. The office of chief is not in all cases in-
herited in a lineal succession, but they are promoted by the will of the
 people, and appointed by the united content of the chiefs in council.
 They have no power further than what their weight of influence
 gives them. Activity in hunting, wisdom in council, and exploits in
 war, are high traits in their character, to raise them to this station;
 and while they continue to hold the good opinion and respect of the
 nation, they are advised with, and looked up to, in all matters of diffi-
culty; but when the good opinion ceases, they lose their influence in
 council, and are discarded from being actors in public affairs. Excepting some who have private grants and specific annuities from
 government, their chiefs have no pecuniary advantage above other In-
dians, nor in their private capacity are they treated with any dis-
tinguished mark of respect. The genealogy of each particular tribe is traced, according to their
 degrees of consanguinity, by the side of the mother. They do not live
 in separate villages, but are settled promiscuously throughout the Sene-
ca nation. There are also a number of inferior chiefs appointed at
 each village, who are called upon as counsellors, when occasions re-
quire, and no business of importance is transacted without their privity
 and concurrence. These chiefs are empowered to inculcate good precepts, and encour-
age the youth and warriors to sobriety and good actions. And although
 their women are degraded below the rank they maintain in more civil-
ized societies, yet even here they possess considerable influence, in re-
gulating the conduct of the men, in various respects. Some of the more
 wise and knowing among them are frequently admitted into their coun-
cils, and give their sentiments publicly on matters of importance. They are very jealous of encroachments on what they esteem their
 rights and privileges; and offences of this nature have often given rise to
 war between nations. Such of the captives taken in war as are pre-
served alive, are sometimes adopted into families, in the place of rela-
tives who have been killed in the war. In such cases they are treated
 kindly: and several of this description remain among the Senecas, who
 have intermarried with them, and become so habituated to their man-
ners and mode of life, that they show no inclination to leave them. It is said many of the devoted number of captives were formerly
 roasted and eaten. There was living, since Friends settled among the
 Senecas, one or two Indians residing on the Alleghany river, who had
 partaken of this inhuman feasting; but the custom has long since been
 exploded by this nation. Though honesty, in a general way, may be reckoned one of their
 signal virtues, yet instances of stealing sometimes occur. When any discovery is made that would lead to detection of the
 person committing a theft, complaint is made to the chiefs, who despatch
 a messenger commanding his appearance forthwith before the council;
 this mandate he instantly obeys; the charge is then opened to him, and
 if he is guilty, and confession is made, the property taken is restored,
 if in being. Every Chief or warrior in council is then at liberty to ex-
press what they think, or wish to say, one by one, on the occasion,
 which the offender is obliged to hear. This is considered a severe pu-
nishment, but no other is inflicted. Should the person charged deny
 that he is guilty, he is considered innocent - for it is remarkable that
 they generally confess when justly charged, and also that their eyes
 and countenances immediately betray them. There is no corporeal
 punishment practised among them, except where the crime is consider-
ed worthy of death. The Indian names are often significant of something in nature, as
 Cornplanter 's name in the Seneca language is Ky-on-twa-ky; Connu-
dia signifies a handsome lake, Ogis-quah-tah is dry musk, Oenda
 means the first ripe corn, Yeang-qwa-haunt, chew-tobacco, &c. They
 are also frequently named from occurrences that happen near the time
 of their birth, and their names are occasionally changed in consequence
 of remarkable circumstances taking place, or of particular employ-
ments, or acts of individuals. It is supposed that in a general way the Indians rather exceed white
 people in longevity, often living, as they imagine, to the age of ninety
 and one hundred years; but as they keep no written records of births
 or other occurrences, nor have any regular method of computing time,
 other than by moons and winters, or the remembrance of remarkable
 events, very few of their elderly people can give a correct account
 how old they are. There is now living on the Alleghany river an old
 woman, who can call her descendants round her to the sixth generation. There was also an Indian living at Cattaraugus, in the year 1800,
 who said he was one hundred and twenty-one years of age. He said
 he had been in Philadelphia when it was a very small town, and gave
 such a circumstantial and regular account of his life, as (together with
 his aged brow and furrowed cheeks,) induced me to credit his relation. The Indians are frequently skilful in the application of simples, as
 also in the knowledge of the medicinal qualities of divers herbs and
 plants. They, however, practice bleeding on trivial occasions, and when a
 person has been a considerable time sick, in a lingering condition, and
 the foregoing applications prove ineffectual to restore him to health, it
 is common for the friends of the diseased person to collect, and, dressing
 two or more men with masks and other accoutrements, as in times of
 public worship, they repair to the habitation of the sick, which they
 go round, rattling and rubbing the tortoise shell, and whooping in a
 frightful manner. Although this is a known custom, and in time of health gives no
 alarm, yet on the debilitated Indian, whose fears are awakened by
 knowing what is to be endured, it has considerable effect. The men
 then enter the house, continuing the noise and acting every wild con-
tortion and manÅ“uvre which their imaginations devise. Sometimes
 they pull the sick person (male or female,) about the house, dirtying
 them with their black hands, rubbing their heads and bodies over with
 ashes, and handling the patient in so rough a manner, that a person
 unacquainted with their custom, might suppose they were going to kill
 him. After this wild treatment, and having thoroughly dirtied the
 house with ashes, they withdraw, and leave the nurse to clean after
 them. Absurd as this practice appears, in many cases it is said to have had
 a beneficial effect, by restoring perspiration, working on the imagina-
tion, and rousing the indisposed person to a salutary exertion. Their idea is, that they drive away the evil spirit by this procedure. Their skill in painting and hieroglyphics is somewhat extraordinary. In their travelling excursions, they frequently describe on the bark
 of trees, by certain emblems or characters which they understand, the
 time they have been from home, the number of persons in company,
 the ensign of the tribe they belong to, the course they are going, and
 the number of deer or other animals they have killed. They are also very ingenious in their idea of the geography of the
 country with which they are acquainted, and readily trace on a map
 the particular waters they have traversed, pointing out their bearings
 and courses. Their reckoning of time is by moons and winters, and the length of
 their journey is computed by the number of days it takes to travel it. They also divide the day into certain parts, such as morning, noon,
 and evening; and in speaking of the time of day, point to the sun's
 place in the firmament. In speaking of sun-set, they say, Onah Gagh-
qua, (the sun is gone.) Their ideas are very confused with regard to astronomy, and they
 have mean conceptions of the rotundity of the earth. They cannot conceive that a person travelling in a direct line could
 ever come back to the same place again, or that men can walk on the
 opposite side of the globe to them. They, like some of the ancients,
 rather favour the idea of the earth being an extended plain, and not
 understanding the principles of gravitation and attraction, they believe
 that if the world turned round, the water would unquestionably fall
 off from it. Their ancient notion respecting thunder was, and still has considera-
ble place among them, that a being whom they call Eno, sent from the
 Great Spirit, and inhabiting the southern mountains, was in the prac-
tice of discharging a short gun which he employed in that way, and
 sometimes striking the trees to show his great strength and power.
 They supposed him to live on large snakes and wild beasts, and that he
 was always a friend to the Indians, though he sometimes killed white
 people. They believe that Eno sends down a stone bolt about one inch in
 diameter, and seven or eight in length, with which he splits trees, &c.
 and when they are so fortunate as to procure this bolt, they entertain
 an opinion that constant success will attend all their undertakings while
 they possess it. They also believe that fire taken from a tree burning
 by lightning and kindled in their houses, is an antidote against fatal 
5 disorders. This they keep burning for a certain time, and then ex-
tinguish it, and kindle another fire in it, stead. In times of drought,
 they frequently go to a tree that has been lately struck with lightning,
 and kindle a fire at the root, in the smoke whereof ascending, they of-
fer up a petition to Eno, praying him to send rain; and circumstances
 of this ort frequently occur a little previous to rain coming, which
 greatly tends to keep up this superstitious idea among them. These
 notions, however, are rather declining among the Senecas. These Indians, in general, (their young people excepted,) were un-
happily the victims of great intemperance, when they could obtain
 strong liquors; and most of the evils that afflict them might be traced
 to that source. This article of strong drink was sometimes carried
 among them by white traders, who also furnished them with abundance
 of silver trinkets, beads, and the like ornaments adapted to their taste. The Indian themselves were also in the practice of trading to the
 frontier settlements of white people, and exchanging their skins, furs,
 and other merchandise, for liquor, which they often brought home to
 their villages, and sold out by retail. This kept many of them conti-
nually in a state of intoxication, while they could obtain the liquor,
 and many scenes of human wretchedness were the fatal consequences
 thus produced. Their aged women, in particular, were conspicuous
 sufferers by this evil, and were often seen lying beside the paths, over-
come by it. 