 A Series of letters written on a Journey to the Oneida, Onondago, and Cayuga Tribes of the Five Nations, including the Brothertons, Stockbridges, and
some of the Tuscaroras, settled upon the ONEIDA RESERVATION; undertaken by iah Rowland, James Cooper, John Pierce, and Joseph Sansom, mainly for the
settling of Taylor, Henry Simmons Junior, and Enoch Walker at a Tract of Land. the said Reservation originally about twenty miles west north west of
Albany, in the State of New York; for the purpose of attempting the gradual Improvement and Civilization of the INDIANS: in the Summer of the year
1796. er the Direction of a Committee of the Yearly Meeting of Friends. Pennsylvania, &c. Edward Hallucks, on the Banks of the North River, 160
miles N. E. of Philad. a 7th. day morn.g 6th. Mo. 3rd. 1796 My dear Friends, We reached this Place last evening, and some of us, being thoroughly
tired of rising early and lying down late, are glad to embrace the grateful intermission of first day, among Friends, at the expense of to day: so
we have put out our Cloaths, to be washed' and are mostly employed, in the different nooks and corners of an old fashioned house, in opening our
hearts to the tender Connections we have left behind us, the more endeared by distance, difficulty, and solitude. The particulars of our Journey
are, so far, scarcely interesting enough to bear recital: yet I should feel myself wanting to the partiality of love and affection if I were to omit
what I know will be grateful to you, and so shall proceed from stage to stage with all the regularities of a Journalist. Having all collected at
Caspar Haines's by 3 o'clock, we took leave of the Friends who accompanied us about 5, and rode, mostly in the rain, over very muddy road, 10 miles
to David Cummings's, on the old York Road, where we were kindly entertained, two of our Company going to  Samuel Gomere's [a friend in the
neighborhood] to lodge. Early next morning they gave us a breakfast, and bade us good steed which we improved by riding 20 miles to Oliver Paxson's
neat Carrigells Ferry on Delaware, to dinner; and in the after noon, crossing the river a few miles above, 17 to Henry Clafton's in Kingwood, a
pleasant village on very high ground where we were accommodated for the night as before. Next day we rode 40 miles, including 5 wherein we mifed the
road, and had a grand view of the blue mountains, forming a vast amphitheatre of hills and woods around Easton, the sun glittering upon its white
houses and shine rendering it a most beautiful object the 10 miles distant. Dined on bread and butter, and honey, about 11 oclock and reached Jacob
Lundy's [the husband of Sarah Lundy] time enough to see the sun shed his last rays with unusual brilliance over the field and woods. I was pleased
to see his Father and Mother spending their last days in ease and quiet in a little hut built for them at one end of the house, from which they have
the pleasure of seeing their Descendants thrive about them, and deceiving the lediousness of leisure by chopping a passel of mending a stocking to
keep up the semblance of wanted utility Next morning his so a lad of 15 guided us several miles across intricate roads toward Sussex Court House, a
dismal looking place with a jail under it, and a whipping post and stocks before, no the almost absolute insignia of the cruel system of past
times, soon I hope to be every where supplanted by the spade and the distaff. Our last Host, as we were going out of the Settlements of Friends,
had directed us to the hospitality of a Colonel Hathorne,for the night at a suitable distance for the night, not recollecting that he was a member
of Congress, which we dis covered on the road, and as he was not at home went 10 miles further to a place called Chester, and lodged at an Inn.
The Landlord was old enough to remember old times with an evident preference, and with respect to Government in particular he thought as somebody
else does sometimes that we had got out of the frying pan into the fire. This being our first tavern fare we did not take it kindly, and started
off, before without breakfast, tho' we were glad afterward to take it as we could get it, and rejoiced when we came in sight of the North River
which is here a mile and a half wide; but so diminished by comparison with the prodigious mountains which surround it, that more of our Company ex 
(Recollecting the Susquehannah at Wright's Ferry) thought it cept myself more than half of one. Two miles along those brought us to Daniel Byrnes's,
where we seemed at home again, staid through the heat of the day, the weaker now growing worser, and rode 12 miles in the evening to this
hospitable mansion, whose venerable Owner now in his 79th year, when he crossed the river to settle here 40 years ago was the only Friend in there
part and held a meeting at his own house some time, has lived to see ten of his children married and settled among Friends so near him that he
could visit them all in a day. Tomorrow evening we intended making a short stage to a Friends house, and expect to reach Albany, about 80 mile from
here, by 3rd day evening from whence I shall probably write to you again, with all the dutiful affections of Husband, Son and Brother Joseph Sansom
Fourth Day Albany 6th. Mo. 8th. 1796 My dear Friends Agreeably to the expectation given you in my last I write again from this low-dutch City, of
which you will have a tolerable idea when you figure to yourselves an old square Church (with a roof almost high enough for a steeple, capped with
a clumsy belfry) fixed trans versely across the center streets, which wind about it in all directions, generally presenting gable ends, scol
loped with battlements, and often antiquated with the lead ed casements that have so long given way to the improve ments of modern times
elsewhere. But I am un intentionally rambling from Edward Hallock's patri archal family; before I have told you that his Father lived to see 140
of his Descendants, to the 4th generations; and Edward himself begins to keep count for 100 to the third: like somebody else he is still more
active than either of his sons, abounding with life and spirit, anecdote and observation. One circumstance of his life deserves particular
attention: shortly after the British took possession of New York and Long Island, I think in 1776, he attended the Yearly Meeting then held at
although Westbury tho' all communication was for bidden under pain of death. Being somewhat doubtful of the propriety of this risqueing his life,
he was confirmed by a dream, in which he saw and heard the Persons who should trouble him for this act of religious duty threatening what they
would do to him: but he was assured that they should not have power to hurt him, and received directions how to conduct himself, and even what to
say when they should question him. Singular as it may appear the latter was couched in the following verses: O mortal Men! your ways and works
consider,Sleep not in death least there you be forever Awake! and stand upright, that you restor'd maybe Both from your sins and evils great, with
all iniquity. Ye Cedars tall, and Oaks, so strong, tho' towred up on high, The fire is kindled at your root, come down before you die. When he was
afterward had before the Committee of Safety he boldly addressed them in these words, If I have done any thing worthy of death or of bonds I am
ready to answer for it. They seemed at a loss to begin with him, which gave him an opportunity to ask them if he should tell them his dream. They
said he might, and he re-  repeated it to them as above; upon which they seemed as tonished, and dismissed him til the next meeting: but they did
not then make a board; which was the case afterward again, and again, till they finally deferred his case for a month; saying they should never be
able to make a board else' and when he attended again there was nobody there but the Chairman, and he told him he might go about his business. Not
feeling perfectly easy to travel thro' the Country on first day evening, we started fresh on 2.nd day morning, glad to be under way again, feeling
our minds more and more drawn to our object as we proceed. Edward set us 5 miles on our way, and we rode as usual thro' a rugged and broken Country
to Eusopus, a town of 80 or a hundred houses mostly well built with stone, an inscription on the Court House where we dined (for it was also a
very decent Inn and the County Jail) informed us that the town was burnt by the British in the year 1777, so completely we were afterward told that
just one house and one barn escaped the flames. This was done under the command of General Vaughan,who was then waiting, on board of the Transport
in the North River, to facilitate the unsuccessful attempt of General Burgoyne,  in revenge for the cruel treatment of the Friends to the former
Government at this place, and the rash conduct of the Townspeople in living upon the Ships as they lay at anchor. From this place we rode several
miles through a deep sand, like that of Jersey covered with pines, saw a beautiful waterfall upon our left; and crossed a small creek in a Scow, for
the first time since we left the Delaware. We did not reach Katskill the place of our destination for the night till dusk, and could not then get
over the Creek to the town, because the Boat was aground on the other side. In this dilemma the Owner of an adjoining House, by name Jacob
Bigordeiss, offered us the best accommodations his house could afford; which we gladly accepted. He freely expressed his good will when we told
him what was our business; and in the morning took us out to see a place, near the Creek, where the side of a hill had gradually sunk down a few
days before between 40 and 50 feet. About an acre of it has descended perpendicularly; and as much more of the lower part had bulged up, and cracked
astonishingly, apparently by the vent of the air confined  in the cavern into which the hill had fallen. There was a flock of sheep upon it at the
time, who were seen to scatter with the first fright, but finding themselves hemmed in, they huddled together till the earth settled, and then
scudded away for terra firma. A large current of muddy water had been long ob served to issue from this hill, into the tide way, which had probably
almost worn it thro: but there was no appearance of an earthquake. Our Host told us that when he came here 6 years ago, there were but Nine Houses
in the Town, and now there were not less than 20 Stores, this being a principal outlet for the Western Country. After this however our days ride was
very uninterresting through broken land, and a tract of Pines extending almost to Albany, rendered doubly tedious by the incess and turns and
windings of the road, often forming a semicircle instead of a line, and sometimes turning three sides of a square. I am just not called to dinner
and so conclude with our distance from Oneida, (supposed to exceed a hundred miles) which we have to make by the end of the week, and my love and
good wishes for you all, as is named, and other enquiring Friends... Your affectionate Kinsman Joseph Samson New Stockbridge, about 200 miles north
of Philad.a but by the way of New York and Albany near 400 6th. Mo. 14th. 1796My dear Friends, Dearer, and dearer, as if by the rule of contraries,
the farther I go from you. We left Albany on the day of my last letter, glad to turn our backs upon it, tho' it is evidently rising into wealth and
consequence, being likely to become the Seat of Government in a few years, and the center of the Western Trade, which has already raised the value
of property to a comparison with the excess of Philadelphia and New York. Its Burghers value themselves as the most ancient Corporation in the
United States: but you will think it an empty one when I add that it has only the precedence of a single day. Traversed 14 tedious miles of sandy
road, through a Forest of Hemlock, and lodged at Schenectady, a considerable town on the banks of the Mohawk, which is here about as large as
Schuilkill, but preserves a gentle current, through a long tract of Country, by being dammed  up, near its junction with the North River, at the
head of the tide, by a solid ledge of Rocks, supposed to be from 100 to 150 feet high, over which the water pours with amazing violence. The
channel is now clearing out, and this place is to be rendered passable by Locks, which will open a river navigation of 300 miles; and a canal of 5
or 6, now undertaken, will give a communication with Lake Ontario, by Wood Creek, and so open a scene of inland connection scarcely to be
parrallelled, at a comparatively trifling expence. Our road lay on both sides of this beautiful river for the two next days, several times crossing
its windings by Ferries, bridges, and often taking up rich flats, highly cultivated, yet without partition fences, and surrounded on the high land
with neat and comfortable houses. See the bottom of the 4th page On 6th. day evening we reached Fort Schuyler as the present head of the
navigation, exhilarated with the sight of the West Country Boats, going down the River, with Pos Ash, & and surprised agreeably surprised with
continued  Settlements of the townships of Whitestown, first begun about 9 years ago by Judge White, in the wild wood, tho' now extending 5 or 6
miles along the road, like the street of a village, the log hovels intermixed here and there with large and handsome frame houses. The front lots
are already valued at S100 an acre, and the adjacent farms from 10 to 20, such is the fertility of the soil, and the influx of Settlers. Here we
had the pleasure of meeting with General Floyd, one of the Commisioners for managing the Affairs of the Brotherton Indians. He told us that he
intended to meet them in a few days, to arrange their business upon the footing lately prescribed by law, and seemed very desirous that one of our
Settlers might reside among them. Judge White, and the rest of the neighboring Gentrs to whom we had an introductory letter, being all absent,
attending Court, we concluded to go on for the Reservations. without waiting for their return, and rode through a rugged but fertile and populous
Country, in the first stages  of improvements, you 8 miles; and where the road or pathway turned off for New Stockbridge, we very opportunely met
with a drunken Indian, who acknowledged us for Brothers with a very good will, and undertook to guide us thro' the thick woods with which this
Settlement is surround. We came to the first houses near night, where the Young Men where drawn up in Indian stile, stooting at a mark, and Men
Women an Children looking on received us with stoical indifference. The main Settlement being 3 miles further we invited ourselves in, asked for
supper, and merrily helped ourselves, with wooden ladles, and pewter spoons, out of a large dish of milk and cold mush baked almost to the
consistency of bread. This done we made our beds upon the floor, and slept till the pigs roused us, in the morning, by grunting about us with all
the familiarity of messmates, impatient for breakfast.Continue at the bottom of the 5th pa. 20 or 30 miles from Schenectady, passed by the old
Mansion House of Sir William Johnson, remarkable for being flanked with wings, one of which has an arched roof. The famous Hall  where he afterward
resided as a Chief of the Mohawk Tribe, is a few miles to the north. When he died shortly after the late French war. During the Revolution, his Son
Sir John went off with the Tribe, to the British in Canada; from whence they made incursions into the Country, particularly in 1780, when they came
down to the number of 600, killed some of the inhabitants, and burnt all the houses for many miles round: but it was remarked that they did not
injure the Women and Children within the ancient Mohawk boundaries, though many were murdered without the line. For many miles further we were
frequently reminded of that, here peculiarly, distressing period by small block houses or strong log buildings, sometimes square, sometimes octa
gonal, of two or three stories projecting one over the other for the purpose of annoying Assailants before, and pierced through with portholes of
various sizes, and a look out at top. Continue at the bottom of the 2d. page. In the morning Hendrick Aupaumut, one of the Chiefs of the
Stockbridges, and two others came to meet us on  horseback, and conducted us to the town, where we were very well entertained by his good wife, a
managing welldisposed Woman. These People settled here by the courters of the Oneidas, about 12 years ago, upon a Tract of excellent land, 6 miles
square, having sold themselves out of house and home, in the northern parts of Massachusetts, where they had long resided, under the care of a
Missionary from the Scotch Society for the propagation of the Gospel. John Sergeant is their present Pastor. He stays with them half his time, two
months alternately, and appears to have their wellfare at heart, being now here with two agreeable Daughters, who make us wellcome. There are about
60 Families of them, amounting to about 300 persons, increasing rapidly, for Indians, as the births exceed the deaths as 2 to 1. This is evidently
in consequence of their peace able, and comparatively, sober and industrious way of living. Every Family has 100 acres in its own right, and as
much is divided off to every new Beginner; the rest, together with a Saw Mill, three yoke of Oxen, some Horses, and an annuity of 250 dollars a
year, from the United States, being held in common. This we learnt from their Chiefs and Councellors in a private conference; one of the latter,
called impressing us all with respect, by singular meekness, gravity, and decorum. On 20. day morning we had a public hearing in their meeting 
house with 80 to 100 men and women, being present; when in which we explained to them our views, with which they appeared satisfied, tho' they had
evidently expected more from us than it is likely we shall think proper to dispense here, as they want nothing but directions to put them in a very
comfortable way of living, and this Chief Capt. Hend rick has already set them an encouraging example by raising 100 baskets of wheat and as many of
Indian Corn in a year. I expect to write again before we leave this Reservation, as we have yet no accounts of Jacob Taylor, and so conclude for
the present. Your affectionate Kinsman Joseph Sansom P.S. If my dear Beulah should be from home when this reaches Philada please to have a copy made
out to send her, with the inclosed, as it mentions no particulars; and inform whoever may call in you for letters from the other Friends, that they
will be directed to the care of John Elliott -- It would do our hearts good to have heard from our Friends, and if you would write by post to the
care of Capt. Israel Chapin at Canadarquai, we may probably have the pleasure of taking up the letters ourselves, by the end of the month. Fort
Schuyler, on the Mohawk, 6th. Mo. 20th. 1796 My dear Friends, My last if I recollect right, was dated this day week; yet, as I trusted it to an
accidental opportunity, I think it very probably you will receive this first. It carried us to Hendrick Aupaumuts, at New Stockbridge, and left us
under the good keeping of Lydia Quinney (for the Wife does not here assume the name of her Husband) one of the best Housewives, considering
circumstances, that we have ever known, no offence I hope to Anybody. You may be sure we were not in haste to leave her; yet having appointed to
meet the Oneidas on 3rd. day afternoon we set out, on foot, and in the rain, though it cleared up before we had travelled far, through thick woods,
and marshy bottoms. Two miles brought us to a little remnant of the Tuscaroras, who fled here 80 or 100 years ago from the banks of the Patowmack,
and, If I am right, have been ever since incor porated with the ancient Five Nations, now six. The main body of them sided with the British in the
late war, and are settled on the banks of Niagara. The few that remain under the patronage of the Oneidas, appear helpless and forlorn, almost
without a Chief, and without a Counsellor. Two miles further we came across the scattered hamlets of the Oneidas, original Proprietors of this
fertile spot, who I think at the Treaty of  of Fort Stanwix, in 1784, reserved to themselves a Tract of about twenty miles square, well watered by
several beautiful streams upon the border of a charming lake, abounding with Fish. Of this however they have since given away one fourth to the
different Tribes that have claimed that protection kin with them. When they were asked to sell they replied: No, we will not sell our Land, to our
own Flesh and blood: but we will give you what you want. Another fourth they have lately sold to the State of New York, I understand at a dollar an
acre (now selling again at four and five). The purchase money however is funded, and yields them four or five thousand dollars a year, part of
which is to be vested in Saw Mills, Grist Mills, & & and the remainder of in good hands would soon stock their land and enable them  to live far
better than People generally do, even in our happy  Country. But with all these advantages they drone away their lives supinely in idleness and
want; their former occupations of fighting hunting & naturally ceasing on the White Settlers increase and no new plans having been yet adopted.
about them, they are now about 600, tho continually lessening while the other Tribes on this Reservation, who till their land, encrease in a rate
that would double their numbers in about 30 years. They received us kindly, and expressed their willingness to adopt our proposals for their gradual
civilization, saying the compact between our Forefathers was made a great while ago: but now it begins to take effect. Here we think to make our
first Their principal Chief, called Seanmadoa, appears to be a Man in whom the utmost confidence may be placed. He is as firm and erect at 78 as our
People usually are at 60 essay upon a piece of level land that has lain common a great many years, like a public square, in the centre of their
bark huts and log houses. Upon which a few of the most tractable Youths are to be taught as Apprentices; and the rest will have the opportunity of
observing the progress, and witnessing the reward of their labour. When the business is got under way some of our Young Men will occasionally visit
the Tuscaroras, above mentioned, Stockbridges, and Brothertons, for the necessary purposes of putting forward their work in due season, and
improving them in the principles of husbandry and good living, in the rudiments of which the two latter are already pretty well grounded. On 7th.
day morning we visited the Brothertons, and were surprised to find them dressed like us, speaking the same language, and many of them almost as
fair as ourselves. Most of the Children having chesnut hair, and some curled. They consist of 40 or 50 Families that have been brought up in
different parts of New England, Long Island, & and so naturalized to our language, and customs that they now use no other; which has such an effect
upon persons and principles that I am persuaded they may incorporate with the White Inhabitants, in and age or two, upon equal terms. These People
affairs have been lately put upon an advantageous footing by the kind interposition of the Friends of New York, and they appear to us to be in a
thriving way, as to spirituals, as well as temporals. It being their practise to meet for Divine Worship twice every first day, under the
profession of the Baptists, and exercise their own spiritual gift, when no Minister attends them. Others of us are now at Fort Schuyler, looking out
a little impatiently for Jacob Taylor, of whom we have yet heard no tidings. Tomorrow we are to introduce ourselves to some more I hope to receive
letters from you by Post at Canandaigua thro' Captain Chapin of the principal persons of the neighborhood; and next day to rejoin our Friends at
Oneida, from whence I shall probably write again, before we set out for the westward, to repeat the feelings of my heart, which are continually
reminding me of the near and dear Relations, Friend, and even Acquaintance, and Fellow Citizens, that I have left behind me. Joseph Sansom New
Stockbridge 6th Mo 21th 1790 My dear Friends, Little has occurred since my last beside the customary disappointment of long expected contingencies,
no Jacob Taylor having yet been heard of, and the usual tediousness and procrastination of Indian Councils, extraordinarily lengthened out by the
novelty of our proposals, apparently no less unexpected, than the reply of Her Rules to the staff'd Waggoners. "Set thy shoulders to the wheel, and
I will help thee" We staid at Whitestown a day or two, and waited upon Judge White, and several other persons to whom we were recommended; and had
the satisfaction to find them all, as well as the Neighborhood in general, favorably disposed toward our undertakings; and willing to render us any
assistance we may be likely to want from them. Here also we introduced ourselves to Jeremiah Belknap, Author of the History of New Hampshire, and
Jedediah Morse, who wrote the Geography of the Uni ted States; they being on their way to the Oneidal Reservation, as Commissioners from the board
of Trustees in Boston; for an enquiry into the conduct of Missionary Kirkland, of which complaint had been made (principally for remissness of duty)
to the Scotch Society for propogating the Gospels by whom these missions are supported. They seem pleased to see us in favour of our errands, of
which they expressed a hearty approbation, as the only means of effectually introducing christianity among the  en. Poor Kirkland is now thought to
be dangerously ill, but if he should recover he will probably make himself very easy about their decision, as he has feathered his nest thoroughly
long since. Whitestown is the Capital of the Couny of Herkimer, which affords an instance of the rapid settlement of these parts, scarcely to be
parrallelled. Twelve years ago Judge White came here the first settler, and lived sometime in a cave, Within six years there were 300 Familys
hearabout; from that time as long as it was possible to calculate the numbers doubled every year; and now they counted, on a late census, forty
three thousand Souls. On fourth day morning we all met again at Oneida Dined heartily upon excellent Salmon, with which the lake abounds from 10 to
15 lbs; and in the afternoon ranged about to view the Country for a suitable situation for building: Fixed upon a eligible spot, and returned to
the Stockbridges, upon occasion of some of their People being desirous to sell their share of Land, for which they had requested leave a few days
before, without the knowledge of their Chiefs, by a string of wampum. The Oneidas expressively described their original grant of the Land to the
Stockbridges under the comparison of a steel Dish, which they had given to last them forever, expecting they said that they would put a steel spoon
into it and take care to keep it bright and whole; but they were surprised to find that the white People had already got hold of some of their
hands, and were trying to break the spoon; with all returning the  wampum as their manner is when they refuse what is requested by telling them that
the Dish was given to them, and their Children, and that the spoon should never be taken out of their mouths. Having sketched out a plan in writing
for the settlement at Oneida, three of us went over on 7th day to read it to the Chiefs; that they might have an opportunity of considering it
before we met the whole Nation in council, for a final determination. They then seemed well satisfied tho their expectations had evidently been
raised to something more ostensible than our present proceedings; but on second Day Morning just as we were setting out, a Runner came in with a
note informing us that they were gone to Fort Stanwix, to complain of the Surveyors for overrunning the boundaries of the last Sale, which will
probably delay our business some days. Accept my love as usual, dear Father, Mother, Wife, Brothers, and Sisters; please to give it freely to all
enquiring Friends; and remember me particularly to the Families of John Drinker, James Pemberton, John Thomas, Owen Biddle, Anne Attmore, Henry
Drinker, Joshua Howell, John Parish, Samuel Smith, Samuel P Grieffitts, and the Widows Foulke and Shoemaker. Jos. Sansom Jacob Taylor has just
arrived with letters from two of my best Friends, they do my heart good. Oneida Castle, 7th. Mo 1796 My dear Friends, On the eve of our departure
from the Oneida Reservation, which, tho' really no more than going on from the main stage of our Journey, feels a little like the outset for Home, I
sit down to gather up the fragments I may have scattered by trusting to memory, from week to week, for the irregular narrative; that no thing may be
lost, either important or interesting. If the consequence should be a repetition of any thing mentioned before, you will remember the motive, and
read the faster. Imprimis, The name of the Chief left blank on No. 3. is David Neshounhut, the latter received from his Ancestors, who it seems were
Man that could shoot the birds with one arrow. After the first conference with the Oneidas mentioned in No 4 or 5 the Women sent us a message, by
the Chief Speaker, that they had heard all our words, and hoped their Husbands would keep to them as far they were all very good. All the time we
were at Hendrick Aupautmut's the Indians of the Neighborhood were continually sending in strawberrys, milk, butter, and sometimes meal, and
otherwise manifesting their love and regard. One of his Daughters was at a conference ten days ago, a mile from her home, and was delivered of a Boy
that afternoon; which she brought herself the night before last to our lodging to tell us she had called him after one of us: I leave you to guess
which. We have the unexpected satisfaction to find the People of the Neighborhood of all Ranks so favorably disposed, both toward us, and the
Indians, as to bid us good speed in our arduous undertaking, and even the Preiby terrain Clergy, who have been long labouring among them, assure us
they are convinced by experience, that the only way to make Christians of them effectually is to civilize them, if that be possible. We have agreed
to settle Jacob Taylor, Enoch Walker, and Henry Simmons, near Oneida Castle, and the Indians have assigned them an excellent piece of land to go
work upon, adjacent to  frame house of two rooms, which we have rented of one of their Chiefs, for the present. They are to take six or eight
Apprentices upon the Farm: but, as the occasionally do assist those who are disposed to work their own ground; and do go among the Tuscaroras,
Stockbridges, and Brothertons, to rouze them from their farming. See the inclosed minutes. On 7th. day evening we had the pleasure of hearing that
our dear friend Joshua Evens was in the neighborhood, and intended to have a meeting at Brotherton on first day morning and two of us went off with
the Chief of the Stockbridges to bid him wellcome, the rest of us staying at home to keep up our own meeting, as usual. In the evening we collected
joyfully at our lodgings, to the number of ten, Joshua having the Companions with him from about the North River; and the Indians ga thered round us
till bed time, for a sight of the venerable Patriarch. Next morning we had our parting Conference with the Stockbridges, wherein, after ex plaining
our views, We delivered our Proposals to them in writing, and earnestly recommended such advice as appeared most necessary for their observance.
After which an Old Man (baptised many years ago by John Schmitt a Moravian Brother who laboured some years in these parts under great difficulties
and discor agements), burst forth very tenderly in the following broken language: Brothers, I glad see you in my heart; and hear your good word.
You use us just like a Father. I am old, lost all my Family. I can't live many days: But all this spring I think Jesus will send me some comfort in
my trouble; but Nobody say anything to me, till more you are come. Wish I was young, then I would do what you say directly: but I go see how your
People work, every two three days, and tell our Young Men what you do. When Hendrick Aupaumut, having first rehearsed in Indian what he was going to
say, replied Brothers, We shall speak but a few words. We are glad of your company among us, these three weeks, that  that, as you told us in the
first Council, you might know what was best for all here; and now you tell us what you will do for our nation. We rejoice that the Good Spirit has
put it into your hearts, and into the hearts of your Brothers at home to do us good. We believe it is of the Good Spirit, because your words are
weights on our minds. Brothers, the offers you make us are great. We did not expect so much from Friends. We are thankful to the Good Spirit for
putting it into your hearts, and for giving you the ability to do it. Brothers, You give us Smith's Tools, for which we thank you. We have suffered
much for want of them, having been obliged to go many miles sometimes, and spend some days, to get on link of a chain mended. Brothers, Your
assisting us to build a Grist Mill will be a great thing for us. We have suffered many years for want of one, especially our Women, who are obliged
to pound over corn, they join us to thank you heartily. Brothers, your offer to help us in setting up a School is very acceptable to us. Be assured
we will do our part towards it. Brothers, what you propose respecting the money lent us is very agreeable to our minds. (It was considered as part
of an advance forward building the Mill repayable if ever al lowed by Congress) and also the encouragement you offer us by premiums. We hope our
Young Men will have courage to follow those ways you point out for us. Bro thers, We now freely promise that the Chiefs, and all our orderly Young
Men, will endeavor to follow your advice, and with the blessing of the Good Spirit we will live more than ever as White People do: for we never
received such encouragement before from any People. We observe what you tell us, that we must be an example to other Indians; and we hope to be so
more and more. Brothers, We shall not forget what you request for the Young Men you leave behind you. Our minds are the same with yours. We will
maintain our friendship with them, and will be always ready to assist them if they get in trouble. Now Brothers, We spoke to you several days ago
about the difficulties we are under in not receiving our annual income from Government, and we desire that one of your Friends in Philadelphia will
endeavour to settle that business, so that we can have our money punctually, in future In the afternoon Joshua Evens had a religious meeting with
them, after which we parted from them in great love and tenderness. Next  Joshua's Companions left him, as he now thinks to return homeward from
Canandaigua, and continue with us so far. We expect to proceed tomorrow afternoon, taking Onondago, and Cayuga, in our way; and begin to promise
ourselves the pleasure of taking up the letters that have been forwarded to the care of Captain Chapin, if all goes well, by the middle of the
month. Till when you will hardly hear again from Your affectionate Joseph Sansom Minutes of conclusive conferences, and Agreements, between t setling
on the Oneida Reservation, and the Indians there, proposed on the 25th and agreed to on the 30th of the Sixth Month 1796. Brothers of the Oneida
Nation You now know that we are sent to you by your old Friends, the People called Quakers of Pennsylvania, and parts adjacent not merely to make
you presents which would soon be spent, leaving you still poor & needy, but to show you how we manage, to raise a great deal of food and Clothing,
off of a little Land, that you may be able to support yourselves, and your Children, comfortably without being beholden to any body, and have
something to spare for the old and Infirm, as well as to lay by against times of scarcity. Brothers Remember that we have left all that was dear to
us at home, not to get your Lands from you or any thing that is yours, but to visit you in love, and stay with you, if happily we may put you in a
way, to enjoy the manifold blessings of the All bountiful Creator. Now we have seen and reflected upon your situation & consulted one another, for
the future prosperity of your whole Nation, and the three tribes, you have kindly permitted to settle upon your Land, and we have put our conclusion
in Writing, that it may be known, what we are willing to undertake for you, and what we desire you to do towards it yourselves, for we mean to set
before you a clear example if you will agree to follow it. Brothers We trust that we have your confidence, unmixed with any jealousies, or fears,
and we request you to listen patiently, and attentively, to what we are going to propose to you, for your own good, yet if any part of it displeases
you, tell us so & we will reconsider it Brothers Three of our Friends intend to say with you for these purposes, namely Enoch Walker, Jacob Taylor,
& Henry Simmons, but they are not bound to remain by anything but good will, neither are they obliged to work more than they think necessary, nor to
be altogether among you, as they are to go sometimes to Stockbridge. Tuscarora, and Brotherson. We earnestly desire that none of you may discourage
them, by swearing idleness or misbehaviour, for these things are very disagreeable to us, as you know they are to the Good Spirit Brothers You know
we must have some Land to work upon, and we should like to begin upon that part of the Common, which lies West of the path from Shannandoas to
Stockbridge, South of the road to Onandago, East of the boundaries of the old Fort, and North of Shenandoah Creek, excepting any part thereof now
occupied by your Families. Brothers If we think there is encouragement to undertake more another Year we shall ask you for it reasonably & agree
together were it shall be Brothers You know it is hardly practicable for all to learn together, We will begin with a few, who must stick to the
work, the rest will see how they get forward, and be ready to take their turn when it comes round, We want to Engage Six or Eight sober young Men,
as apprentices, till next Spring. Brothers We suppose that you will be willing we should graze our Horses, Cattle &C upon, the Common, and that you
will allow us some grass lots to provide Hay for them in the Winter, to cut firewood, railing, and timber for our buildings, in your Woods, use your
Saw Mill & Smith Shop when we have occasions, and sometimes work your Horses & Oxen if you are not using them Brothers You will understand that our
Friends are to live plentifully as their own People do at Home, and their live stock is to be kept upon the produce of their labours, in the first
place. One Eighth part of the remainder is to be reserved for the releif of your old and Infirm People, and the rest is to be divided among the
Indian apprentices, that they may enjoy the Fruit of their labours and have something to begin with for themselves when others are taken in their
stead, provided they behave well, but in case of incorrigible idleness, drunkenness, swearing, or misbehaviour, in any of them, our Friends must
avoid bad company, and we request you to appoint three of your Chiefs, to unite with them as judges, that if four of them agree the offender may be
justly discharged. Finally Brothers Our stay among you will depend upon several circumstances but particularly  encouragement we may have to hope,
that you will in time become sober industrious, and frugal, laying up something for yourselves, against sickness and old age, Whenever we leave you
the improvements we make on your Lands, will belong to you, but the Cattle and other things we bring with us for our own use, we shall probably take
away. Sixth Month 25th the The Indians replied on the 30th in substance as follows. We find no difficulty in agreeing to your proposals, as to
anything but the place you choose, (see the 5th article) many of our People are against parting with any of the Common, because we have hardly
pasture enough for our Cattle now, and if we lesson it they will be famish'd, and break down the Fences to get at our Corn, besides which we are
afraid our Young Men will disturb you there sometimes, when they get in liquor which we cannot always prevent. Brothers We think it right to
propose another place to you which we believe will suit you better will you go and look at it. Upon this the spot was viewed and being thought
likely to suit as well as the others, it was mutually agreed to as follows, beginning at a GutSouth East of Anthony Shonongleyas House, and running
nearly South by a tree, marked to, a tree, markd  as far as Shenandoah Creek, extending Eastward into the W out limitation, And the said Anthony
being willing to leave his House and appurtenances, they were engaged for the use of the settlement, It was also agreed that the Friends should have
liberty to enclose what they might want of the Flats, for hay or pasture, agreeable to the Eighth article, but the Indians did not choose to engage
their Oxen, except the young ones to be broke first, or their Horses, because they were not good for any thing to Work. And John Shanandoa, Anthony
Shonongleya, and Nicholas Shago rohorongo, were appointed as judges under the 9th Article. Signed at Oneida Castle the day of the Seventh Month 1796.
by Canadarquai 7th. Mo. 14th. 17 My dear Friends, You will be pleased to hear that a hundred and twenty miles travelling since my last have carried
us very little farther from Philadelphia, especially as we reckon it so much toward home, on the Farther way round. On 5th. day morning we took an
affectionate leave of fifteen or twenty of the Stockbridges, who had collected at our Lodgings for that purpose, and went over to our own House at
the Oneida Farm, where we held our week day meeting. We dined together at Shenandoa's, and observing that the Indians were collecting about us we
proposed to take our leave of them under the trees, and had a seasonable opportunity with some hundreds of Men Women and Children, after which the
Chiefs observed that now they knew we meant what we said for we had only repeated the same speech we made to them before, whereas it was the common
practise of the White People to speak good words to them at first; but when they spoke again they always found that they had changed their minds. A
respectable old Woman seemed much tendered at parting, and desired the Interpreter to tell us that it was not the custom for Women to speak in
Council, but that their hearts were sensible of our good words though they had nothing to add to them. We rose 12 or 15 miles that evening to a
wretched tavern, and turning out as early as possible next day arrived at Major Danforth's on the Onondago Reservation, by 10 o'clock. Ephraim
Webster, a Young Man who had lived with  seven years, dined with us, and we went in the afternoon to the Town consisting of the Council House and 5
or 6 bark cabbins, but the Indians were generally out fishing, hunting, & there Corn being already spent. Ten or a dozen of them however came
together after a while, to whom we opened our business, and learned from them that they were about 130 in number and received 125 Dollars a year
from the Government of New York, which will be doubled by a late sale of the greatest part of their Land, leaving them an excellent Tract extending
four miles by five. They seemed unwilling to hear us in the absence of the rest, having evidently formed great expectations of something to be done
immediately: but we thought it best to proceed so they could not readily be got together; and to make them easy left our speech in writing, to the
effect that they should be furnished with some implements of husbandry next Spring, and that we would bring up some of their Children to useful
learning and trades if they would send them down to us. The next afternoon we reached Frederick Gerhart's near the Cayuga settlement, walked over to
one of the hovels in the evening, and appointed a Conference for Second day, by sunrise. This Tribe lives principally by fishing, the Cayuga Lake 40
miles long, and 2 or 3 wide, abounding in Trout, Catfish, and particularly Eels. There are but about eighty of them here upon 4000 acres of land,
they having lately sold all the rest for an annuity of about 1500 Dollars, including 500 they had before. They appear to be irreclaimably sunk into
the lethargick  idleness so common in fishing neighborhoods, for neither gratitude no could move more than three men and as many Women to attend
oument. They acknowledged their ignorance over and over again, & assented to everything, without answering any thing, except that they would send
one or two of their Boys among us to learn how to interpret for them, if they could persuade their Mothers to let them go. About 11 oclock we
crossed the Cayuga Later in a flat bottomed Sloop, with a stiff sale, in 20 minutes, and, dining at the Ferry, I amused myself with looking
wistfully after the Sloop till she dropped sail again on the other side, in remembrance of the ever shifting scenery of Delaware. Who will step into
the Jersey View for me and count how many Sail are in sight this moment. Here we came across a Whitestown News Paper, and were not a little pleased
to find the following ourselves toasted as the enterprising and benevolent Quaker Missionaries  in a long list of Republican toasts drank there on
the celebration of the Anniversary of Independence The enterprizing and benevolent Quaker Missionaries, May they succeed in civilizing our Indian
Brothers at Oneida, as it manifests the favorable disposition of the Neighborhood. It rained fast by noon: but as there was Company acquainted with
the road going on for the next stage, we thought it best to keep with them, and rode 12 miles through bad roads and rich land before it ceased,
just as we came in sight of the Senneka Lake, opposite to Geneva, a thriving town of 20 or 10 houses beautifully situated near the outlet of the
Lake Here we were glad to stop, and dry our cloaths. Next mor de 12 or 14 miles partly through deep mire to this place. afternoon we called upon
Israel Chapin the Superintendant of Indian Affairs, who informed us that he had received and forwarded answers from each of the Six Nations,
excepting only that part of the Sennekas living at Buffalo Creek, who it seems think proper to see what effect our exertions may have upon others
before they are tried upon them. I rather expect to write again before we leave this place; and an unexpected opportunity now offering I am obliged
to conclude, in haste, with all respect, and affection Joseph Sansom Canadarquai, 7th. Mo. My dear Friends, We arrived here on the 12th. and the next
day but one I wrote you the particulars of our journey from Oneida Farm, in great haste, to go by the celebrated Land Jobber Phelps, who was setting
out directly, but he is not gone yet: for as the Indians say, once he was a light Man, and could go over the mountains from Conewaugus to
Jenuchshadega but now he's grown so fat and heavy there's no moving him from home. The Country surrounding the beautiful Lakes that connect these
Parts with the Mohawk and the Susquehanna, abounds with Sugar Maple and almost every Family making sugar supplies itself with ease in early in the
Spring with very little labour; They are also and is plentifully supplied with salt from a marshy Lake near Onondago, where several hundred bushels
are made in a day, and sold at the moderate price of five shillings. It is also remarkable for the remains of extensive Fortifications, inclosing
several acres with mounds of earth, overgrown with the largest timber, which bespeak a degree of labour antiquity and population unaccountable upon
the present circumstances of the Natives, who can give no account of their origin. Their mode of carrying on war was by surprise and retreat, in
which they often suffered amazing extreme hardships to gratify prove their courage, or gratify their revenge. The Five Nations have been in the
practice time out of mend, untill a few years since, of going almost every summer several many hundred miles against the Cherokees, on the borders
of Carolina and Georgia, to signalize their valour Some old Men have been pointed out to us who have been on this bloo several times, one of whom
called Owhistonish (or the Silversines he knows the value of money) was once out nine days, without a mouthful to eat, upon this senseless errand.
Now however they have some thing else to do, as they were expressively told by a Chief of the Illinois, who invited them all to leave their Country,
and go over the Ohio: You are growing less and less said he, and Great Eyes will grow bigger and bigge til he gets you in a heap, and then he'll
lift up his foot, and stamp upon you, as you would upon an Ants nest. A few days ago we indulged ourselves in a visit to the Friends about Mud
Creek, who were as glad to see us as we were to see them, the good women washing and mending for us as if we had been their own Children. Joshua
Evens has had several meetings among them, to good satisfaction, tho' they appear to have god into a strange land, and hung their harps upon the
willows. Since our return we have been much at a stand, one of our Company, John Pierce, thinking himself clear of the service, and concluding to
return home in company with Joshua through Muncey. But the rest of us are disposed to finish the business we came about, though in weakness, and
expect to proceed on 2nd. day for the Indian Settlements on the Genesea, and from there to the Corn Planters Villages on the Alleghany, either by
the way of Niagara and Buffaloe Creek, or more directly across the mountains. We understand he has lately made a speech to the President requesting
to have some Persons removed who have encroached upon his Land, and some Quakers sent out as they used to live in peace with them and thinks they
could still. We pro-  pose to take one or two Indian Guides, from place to place, who ca a fire, or knock up a hut, when we are under the necessity
of woods: from which, with submission to Divine disposal, we hope to emerge, by way of Sunbury, or Pittsburgh, in two or three weeks; of which I
shall take the first opportunity to let you know, though we shall probably then ride post ourselves to meet again at our greatly endeared homes the
loving and beloved Friends we left there Joseph Sansom Second day the 18th. At a conference yesterday James Cooper expressed himse easy to proceed,
without we could all go on together; and this Isaiah Rowland, apprehending we could not separate in the unity we were directed to preserve, it was
concluded that it would be unsafe for any of us to go further; and we now intend to turn homeward tomorrow morning: So my dear Friends I hope we
shall meet again much sooner than I expected; probably by the end of next week. Muncey 7th. Mo. 24th. 7My dear Friends, My last, if you have but
received it, informed you unexpected return, the present is dated upon the West Branch of Susquehanna, more than half way home, which I hope to
reach by 6th. or 7th. day next. We left Canadarquai on 3rd. day morning the 19th. instead, accompanied by Abraham Lapham, one of the Friends near
Mud Creek, who attended Joshua Evens with a fresh horse, to relieve his Mare, whose back was sadly galled soon after he left Otego. We're shown a
small Island, tufted with trees, as we rode along the Lake, upon which the Indians of this place secreted themselves, drawing up their canoes among
the bushes, when General Sullivan invaded their Country in 1778. Reached a new Settlement in the woods, 30 miles distant, by 5 o'clock. where, there
being no accommodations for 12 miles, beyond we spread our blankets on the floor, and slept pretty comfortably till day light. Got to Noath the
capital of the County Steuber by 10 o'clock, riding with a great deal of pleasuremost of the way along the banks of the Conhocto, delighted to be
once more upon running water. The Creek is boatable so high in the spring of the year: but the town is more dependant  crossroads to Canadarquai
and Genesee A mile below as a Lake of half a mile in diameter, which has no visible inlet, yet the water is always fresh, and well stocked wi large
and small Fish. It is very deep and has been sounded in some places with 40 fathoms of line without finding bottom. Lodged at the Painted Post, a
small town two miles below the spot from which it takes its name, the grave of an Indian Sachem, marked by a high post, crudely painted with figur
denoting the numbers by him taken captive or killed in battl Riding almost all day through mountainous and barren land we were agreeably relieve by
the prospect of an extensive and well cultivated flat, though still surrounded with mountains resembling green walls of stupendous height. Next
moring crossed and recrrossed the Tioga, and several of its branches, till about noon, when we crossed the Pennsylvania Line, rejoicing at the
thoughts of home Lodged at the last house on that side of the Wilderness surrounding the Alleghany Mountains, 43 miles across, with but one house
near the middle, and that inhabited by a Man whose general character is fierce and brutal, suspected of having killed a Pedlar who lodged here some
months ago on his way through, and has never been heard of since. This Wretch we determined to avoid, and Joshua Evens rouzed us two or three ti
o'clock, and finally started in by half after one, the m bright a little past the full. Leaving Ab here, and taking our Landlord for a Guide. We
rode day break, along the banks of the Tioga, through thick woods almost impervious to moonshine, silent and slow, every one keeping his eye upon
the next before, and now and then catching a glimpse of Joshua Evens's white coat and horse. Here and there the wood opened enough to show the water
glistening with moon beams, and ever and anon the path way crossed the river to avoid the sidelong hills. Stopped to feed about sunrise amidst fog
and Gnats and gladly turned our backs upon them to encounter the Mountain which continues risig more or less at intervals for 10 or 15 miles the
road stony, rooty, swampy, and winding to the right and left round fallen trees and quagmires. Passed the terrific house before noon, and in an
hour or two descended the mountain, which is here so steep that two miles brings you to the bottom, where there is another feeding place, 12 miles
from the house we put up at for the night, after crossing a branch of Lyconery two and thirty times. Next morning reach a Friends House in the
Settlement of Muncey, where we seemed at home as soon as we sat down, but thought best to proceed for another near the meeting house in the
afternoon. The Improvements here had been destroyed ans during the last war, and some Person had been killed in the  two families of Friends,
remained at their habitations with untill they were carried away the heads of them were taken  after jail as suspected Person; and the door of
another house was marked in the night with the figure of a tortoise, which was afterward understood to have been an indication that they might stay
with safety like a tortoise covered each in its shell. We expect to leave this Place on 2nd. Day by way of Catawissy, and I shall probably be
themyself the bearer of the next intelligence from Your Joseph Sansom