 ADVERTISEMENT. Since putting to press a London Edition of
"A brief Account of the Proceedings of the
"Committee appointed in the Year 1795, by
"the Yearly Meeting of Friends of Pennsyl-
"vania, New Jersey, &c. for promoting the
"Improvement and gradual Civilization of the
"Indian Natives," an account of the proceed-
ings of a committee, appointed by another
Yearly Meeting in North America, has been
received. In presenting it to the English reader,
a few remarks may be useful. The Yearly Meeting held at Baltimore, in
Maryland, is quite distinct from that held at
Philadelphia; yet it represents a considerable
part of the body of Friends in the western part
of Pennsylvania. The objects of the concern of
the two Yearly Meetings are equally distinct.
The Indian nations to which the Maryland com-
mittee has directed its attention, lie in general
farther west, than those under the notice of the
Pennsylvanians. They are situated in that vast
district which is comprehended between the
rivers Ohio and Mississippi, and bounded to
the north by the lakes Superior, Huron, and
Erie. Lake Michigan penetrates this district,
and may be said to be wholly within it. It has
been called the North-Western Territory; and
was not long ago the scene of an Indian war; but
peace was established by a treaty at Greeneville
in 1795; when a part of the territory was ceded
to the United States, together with some posts,
or trading stations, within the Indian part. Of
these Fort-Wayne is one. It is in the unceded
parts that the experiments have been made,
which are recorded in the following pages. Both the Yearly Meetings seem to have lost
no time in beginning their work of brotherly
kindness to the Indians. The war had been
an obstruction; but we find the date of the
peace, and of the appointment of their com-
mittens, to be in the same year, 1795. In the letter which forms the Appendix to
the Pennsylvanian account, an Indian chief, named
Little Turtle , is spoken of in terms of great ap-
probation. It may therefore be particularly ac-
ceptable to see a speech of his in this narrative. In the advertisement prefixed to the Penn-
sylvanian account, an apology is made for the
apparent absence of religious instruction as a
part of the plan. The concluding paragraph
of this account confirms the apology; but fu-
pressed the necessity of repeating it. Probably, a slight geographical description,
may render the narrative more interesting to
some readers; and though maps are not always
 />to be depended on, especially with respect to a
country so uncivilized, the following sketch,
taken from maps, may convey no bad notion of
the locality of the committee’s labours. Muskingum river runs from N. to S. and falls
into the Ohio in about 81.40 West longitude. Tuskarawas (supposing it to be the Tuscaroras
of the maps), is a small stream in the limits of
Pennsylvania, which falls into the Junietta, a
branch of the Susquehannah. Sandusky is an Indian settlement, on a river
of the same name that has a N.E. course, and
empties itself into a small arm of lake Erie, near
its western end, about 82.50 W. lon. Miami is the name of three rivers in this
country. That which concerns the account is
Miami of the lakes, which running nearly from S.
to N. a course of apparently 150 miles, falls into
lake Erie, about 50 miles W. of Sandusky.
On this river, where, as the term is, it forks,
is Fort-Wayne. The Wabash seems a long and crooked river.
One of its sources is S. of Fort-Wayne; the
stream from which is doubtless the Wabash, near
which the agricultural examples have been felt,
as related in the account. The Ohio receives
the waters the Wabash, not far from the 88th
degree of W. longitude. The Eel-River appears to be one of the streams
which run into the Wabash. It seems to rise
in the neighbourhood of Fort-Wayne. The Miami nation, is no doubt connected with
the river, or rivers of that name. The place of
the Wyandots is given in the account. The Sha-
wanees and Delawares are marked in one map
as occupying the neighborhood of the Ohio.
The Weas are mentioned in the account as con-
nested with Eel-River. Fort-Wayne in a strait line seems not less than 
350 miles from Baltimore; but probably a great
deal more by any practicable road. Humanity may venture to rejoice at these at-
tempts. Though, as was observed in the former
account, not on a grand scale, they are attended
with considerable expence; and a labour, not
easily appreciated by the inhabitants of highly
cultivated and civilized countries. But, to adopt
a metaphor from the work, they are attempts
to cultivate the large, and inexhaustible field
of Christian benevolence: for no less is every
extension of brotherly kindness to our fellow-
men, which springs from Christian principles. THE Editor regrets that, in the letter
from the American General, printed at the close
of the Account from Pennsylvania, a few lines
were suffered to remain, which convey a cen-
sure on some former American missionaries. It
may have not been perfectly easy for a person in
a very different walk of life to feel exactly the
difficulties of their situation. Whoever duly
weighs the state of the Indians, may account for
their want of success without thinking them
much to blame. At any rate the Editor is dis-
posed to call it an oversight, that in a work
intended to show the successful diligence of one
set of men, there should have slipped in a need-
less censure of another. Extract from the Minutes of the Yearly Meeting
held in Baltimore, 10th Mo. 1805. A Report from our Committee on Indian
concerns was produced, which being read and
considered, much satisfaction with their pro-
ceding was expressed: inasmuch as it very
evidently appears that considerable benefits to
our Red Brethren have already resulted, since
the care of the Yearly Meeting towards them.
The Committee were encouraged to continue
such exertions, in the prosecution of this im-
portent concern, as may be in their power to
extend: they were also left at liberty to have
printed, for the more general information of
Friends, as many copies of their report, con-
nected with a narrative of their previous pro-
ceedings, as they apprehend may be usefully
distributed amongst our members. A BRIEF ACCOUNT
OF THE
PROCEEDINGS OF THE COMMITTEE
APPOINTED BY THE
YEARLY MEEITNG OF FRIENDS
HELD IN BALTIMORE,
For Promoting the Improvement and Civilization
of Indian Natives. A weighty concern having been opened in
the year 1795 in our Yearly Meeting, re-
specting the difficulties and distresses to which
the Indian natives of this land were subject, it
obtained the serious attention of Friends; and
many observations were made, relative to the
kindness of their ancestors to ours in the early
settlement of this country; exciting a deep con-
sideration and enquiry, whether, under the in-
fluence of that exalted benevolence and good
will to men, which our holy profession incul-
cates, there was not something for us, as a
Society, to do for them; towards their promoting their
religious instruction, and knowledge of agricul-
ture, and useful mechanic arts. A solemnity prevailing, the sentiments of
many were expressed, evidencing a near sym-
pathy with them. The meeting therefore united
in recommending to our Quarterly and Monthly
Meetings, to open subscriptions amongst our
members for their relief; and appointed a com-
mittee, to pay such attention to the interesting
concern, as they might be enabled to render. The committee, after having fully considered
the subject of their appointment, concluded, as
the most effectual way of obtaining correct in-
formation of the situation and disposition of the
Indians, to appoint a deputation from amongst
themselves, to visit the Shawnees, Delawares,
Wyandots, or other such nations, north-west of
the river Ohio, as they might find practicable.
The friends who were nominated to this service,
having first obtained the approbation of Govern-
ment, proceeded in the summer of 1796, as far
as the forks of the Muskingum river, at which
place, they had been informed that a consider-
able number of Indians were collected; but
upon their arrival there, they found that all the
chiefs, and most of the hunters, had dispersed.
And, it not appearing practicable to convene
them in a suitable manner for a conference at
that time, they returned without accomplishing
the object of their visit. They however saw
divers hunters and others, who appeared to be
well disposed to receive the instruction and
assistance, with which Friends proposed to fur-
nish them. The committee being still deficient in the
information necessary to enable them to pro-
ceed with safety, in so important an undertaking,
one of their number offered, in the fall of this
year, to undertake a visit to the Indians, for the
purpose of obtaining a more satisfactory know-
ledge respecting them; and his proposal being
approved, he was encouraged to proceed as
soon as might be practicable. Accordingly, in
the spring of 1797, he, with two others of the
committee, who became concerned to unite
with him, made them a visit; in the course of
which, having passed by a number of their
hunting camps, and several of their towns, they
had large opportunity of discovering their situ-
ation. Often exposed to the inclemency of the
seasons, with a very precarious, and often a
very scanty supply of food and clothing, they
suffered all the miseries of extreme poverty; in a
country, which, from its great fertility, would,
with but little cultivation, abundantly supply
them with all the necessaries of life. These friends had an opportunity with some
of they chiefs and hunters of the Wyandot, and
Delaware nations, in which they informed them
of the concern of Friends relative to them; and
endeavoured to impress on their minds, the ad-
vantages they would derive, from permitting a
knowledge of agriculture, and some of the most
useful mechanic arts, to be introduced amongst
their people. The Indians appeared to give close
attention to the communication, and promised
to lay the matter before their grand council, and
inform us of their conclusion upon the subject. No way opened during the year 1798, to
proceed in carrying the concern of the Yearly
Meeting into effect; except that the committee
furnished a few implements of husbandry, and
other assistance to some Indian families, which
were situated upon the branches of the Tus-
karawas river. In the Second Month, 1799, the committee
received a speech, and a belt of the Wampum, from
Tarhie , the principal chief of the Wyandot nation,
delivered at Detroit, in the Ninth Month pre-
ceding; of which the following is an extract: Brethren Quakers,
You remember that we once met a cer-
tain place. When we had there met, a great
many good things were said, and much friend-
ship was professed between us. Brothers,
You told us that at the time, that you not only
took us by the hand, but that you held us fast
by the arm: that you then formed a chain of
friendship. You said, that it was not a chain of
iron; but that it was a chain of precious metal,
a chain of silver, that would never get rusty; and
that this chain, would bind us in brotherly affec-
tion for ever. Brethren, listen:
We have often heard that you were a good
and a faithful people, ever ready to do justice,
and good to all men, without distinction of co-
lour; therefore we love you the more sincerely,
because of the goodness of your hearts, which
has been talked of amongst our nations, long
since. Brethren, listen:
You have informed us, that you intend to
 visit us; yes, that, even in our tents and cabins,
you will take us by the hand. You, brethren,
cannot admit a doubt that we should be very
happy to see you. Brethren, listen:
It is but proper to inform you at this time,
that when you do come forward to see us, you
will, no doubt, pass by my place of residence
at Sandusky. I will then take you, not only
by the hand, but by the arm, and will conduct
you safely to the grand council-fire of our great
Sasteretsey; where all good things are trans-
acted, and where nothing bad is permitted to
appear. When in the grand council of our
Sasteretsey, we will then sit down together, in
peace and friendship, as brethren are accus-
tomed to do, after a long absence; and remind
each other, and talk of those things that were
done between our Good Grand-Fathers, when
they first met upon our lands, upon this great
island. Brethren,
May the Great Spirit, the master of light
and life, so dispose the hearts and minds of all
our nations and people, that the calamities of
war may never more be felt, or known by any
 of them; that our roads and paths may never
more be stained with the blood of our young
warriors; and that our helpless women and chil-
dren may live in peace and happiness. After a consideration of the foregoing com-
munication, from the Wyandot Nation of Indians,
the committee concluded to appoint a few
friends to make them a visit, agreeably to their
request. These were directed to cultivate a
friendly correspondence with them, and afford
them such assistance as they might be enabled
to render. They accordingly proceeded in the
visit; with an intention of being at the General
Council; and after passing through several of
their towns, arrived on the Third of the Sixth
Month at Upper Sandusky, the principal vil-
lage of the Wyandots, where they were received
in a friendly manner, by Tarhie (the Crane) ,
and others of that nation. Upon conferring with these Indians, it was
found, that a mistake had been made in the
translation of the speech, which they had sent
to friends, respecting the time of opening their
great Council, to which Friends had been invited:
who were now informed, that it began annually
at the full moon, in the Sixth Month. Finding
it would be difficult to procure food for them-
selves and horses there, until that time, the com-
mittee concluded it was best, under their present
circumstances, to propose to Tarhie , a con-
terence with him and the other chiefs, who
were then at, and in the neighborhood of, San-
dusky: which was accordingly agreed to; and
at the time appointed, they met him and several
other chiefs, together with a number of their
hunters, at his own house; when they had a
full opportunity with them on the subject of
their visit. Their communication appeared to be received
with great satisfaction by the Indians; who
in their answer, delivered on some strings of
Wampum, expressed the gratitude they felt, for
the care and friendship which their beloved
brethren, the Quakers, had always manifested
for the Indians; and promised, as soon as the
grand Council met, that they would communi-
cate fully to it, the concern which our Society
felt for their improvement, and inform us by a
written speech of their conclusion thereon. Whilst these friends were at Sandusky and
other villages, their minds were often deeply
affected, under the sorrowful consideration of
the baneful effects of spirituous liquor upon
the Indians, at that time supplied with it, in al-

most every village, by Canadian traders residing
amongst them: and they were confirmed in the
opinion, that unless these traders could be res-
trained from furnishing them with this destruc-
tive article, in exchange for their skins and furs,
they would not easily be persuade to turn their
minds towards agriculture and the useful arts. Notwithstanding which discouragement, the
great affection they have for our Society, mani-
fested on all occasions whilst the committee were
 amongst them, induced a hope, that Friends
 would endeavour to keep under the weight of
the concern; and be prepared to proceed in the
benevolent work, whenever way might open for
further service amongst them. There was not any communication between
the committee and the Indians during the year
1800. In the spring of 1801, they addressed a
letter to them, which was forwarded to San-
dusky; but the person to whose care it was
directed, and who was requested to communi-
cate it to their council in the Sixth Month, not
being at home, it was returned to the committee. In the Sixth Month, 1802, the Little Turtle ,
Five Medals , and several other principal chiefs,
of the Miami and Pottowattomi nations of Indians,
passed through Baltimore, on their way to visit
the President of the United States; at which
time the committee took the opportunity of
holding a conference with them; in which the
concern of Friends was fully opened; when
they informed them, of the great discouragement
Friends had met with, in carrying their views
into effect, from the intemperate and destructive
use of spirituous liquors amongst the Indians:
which was found to be the greatest obstacle in
the way of their profiting by the aid which
Friends had been desirous of giving them. This opened the way for free communica-
tion, on the subject of the introduction of ardent
spirits into their country; in which its baneful
and pernicious effects were strongly pointed out.
The Little Turtle , in reply, made a very pathe-
ticand impressive speech upon this subject, from
which the following in extracted. Brothers and Friends,
When our forefathers first met on this
island, your Red Brethren were very numerous.
But since the introduction amongst us, of what
you call spirituous liquors, and what we think
may justly be called Poison, our numbers are
greatly diminished. It has destroyed a great
part of your Red Brethren. My Brothers and Friends,
We plainly perceive, that you see the very
evil which destroys your Red Brethren. It is
not an evil of our own making. We have not
placed it amongst ourselves. It is an evil placed
amongst us by the white people. We look to
them to remove it out of our country. We tell
them, Brethren, fetch us useful things; bring
goods that will clothe us, our women, and our
children; and not this evil liquor, that destroys
our reason, that destroys our health, that de-
stroys our lives. But all we can say on this
subject, is of no service, nor gives relief to your
Red Brethren. My Brothers and Friends,
I rejoice to find, that you agree in opinion
with us, and express an anxiety to be, if pos-
sible, of service to us, in removing this great
evil out of our country: an evil which has had
so much room in it, and has destroyed so many
of our lives, that it causes our young men to
say, We had better be at war with the white
people. This liquor, which they introduce into
our country, is more to be feared than the gun
and the tomahawk. There are more of us dead
since the treaty of Greenville, than we lost by
the six years of war before. It is all owing to the
introduction of this liquor amongst us. Brothers,
When our young men have been out hunt-
ing, and are returning home loaded with skins
and furs; on their way, if it happens that they
come where some of this whiskey is deposited,
the white man who sells it, tells them to take a
little drink. Some of them will say No, I do
not want it. They go on till they come to ano-
ther house, where they find more of the same
kind of drink. It is there offered again; they
refuse; and again the third time; but finally,
the fourth or fifth time, one accepts of it, and
takes a drink; and getting one, he wants ano-
ther; and then a third, and fourth, till his senses
have left him. After his reason comes back
again to him; when he gets up, and finds where
he is, he asks for his peltry. The answer is,
You have drunk them. Where is my gun?
It is gone. Where is my blanket? It is
gone. Where is my shirt? You have sold
it for whiskey!! Now, Brothers, figure to your-
selves what condition this man must be in. He
has a family at home; a wife and children, who
stand in need of the profits of his hunting. What
must be their wants, when he himself is even
without a shirt! These chiefs appeared to be much rejoiced at
the assistance, Friends proposed to render them;
and, in reply to that part of our communication,
observed, That it was their anxious wish, to
engage in the culture of their lands; for although
the game was not so scarce, but that they could
get enough to eat; yet they were sensible it was
daily diminishing, and that the time was not far
distant, when they should be compelled to take
hold of such tools, as they saw in the hands
of the white people. The committee, on a weighty consideration of
the subject, being from their former experience
united in judgment, that no great progress could
be made in the civilization of the Indians, while
they were so abundantly supplied with distilled
spirits, concluded to address Congress on the
subject. Their memorial was favourably re-
ceived, and a law passed, which in some mea-
sure provided a remedy for the evil. As it now appeared to the committee, that the
principal obstruction to the introduction of agri-
culture amongst the Indians was removed, they
felt themselves encouraged to proceed in their
undertaking; and accordingly provided a con-
siderable number of implements of husbandry;
such as ploughs, hoes, axes &c. which were for-
warded to Fort-Wayne, where they were imme-
diately distributed, as a present from the society
of Friends, and thankfully received by the
Indians. A letter was received in the summer of 1803,
from the agent for Indian affairs at Fort-Wayne,
in which he says:— Since there have been no spirituous liquors
in the Indian country, they appear very indus-
trious, and are fond of raising stock. He also
expressed, as his opinion, that the suppression
of spirituous liquors in that country is the most
beneficial thing which has ever been done for
them by the United States; that there had not
been one Indian killed in that neighbourhood for
a year; and that in no preceding year, since the
treaty of Greenville, had there been less than
ten, and in some years, as many as thirty, killed.
The agent further added, that the Indians
appeared to be very desirous of procuring for
themselves the necessaries of life, in our way;
but say they do not know how to begin. Some
of their old men say, The white people want
for nothing. We wish them to shew us how
to provide the many good things we see amongst
them. If it is their wish to instruct us in their
way of living, as they tell us it is, we wish
them to make haste and do it, for we are old,
and must die soon; but we wish to see our
women and children in that path, that will lead
them to happiness, before we die. At the same time a letter was received from
the Little Turtle and Five Medals , in which
they expressed a wish, that some of the com-
mittee would visit their country; which being
considered, the committee appointed a depu-
tation for that purpose; who were authorized
to take one or more suitable persons with them,
to reside amongst the Indians, for the purpose
of teaching them agriculture, and other useful
knowledge; as far as such an establishment
should appear practicable. In the Second Month, 1804, two of the
deputation proceeded to Fort-Wayne, accom-
panied by Philip Dennis ; who had offered his
services to go with them, to remain with the
Indians during the summer; for the purpose of
instructing them in husbandry; taking with him
two horses to be employed in ploughing, &c. They arrived at Fort-Wayne the last day
of the Third Month, and soon after convened
several of the principal chiefs; in a council with
whom, a future day was fixed upon for the
committee to meet them, together with as many
of their old men, their young men, and their
women and children, as could be assembled. The
attendance of the latter was particularly re-
quested by our deputation; and these chiefs
having previously requested, that whatever mat-
ter Friends might have to communicate to the
Indians should be written, in order that they
might lay it before the Grand Council, in
the Sixth Month following (to the attendance
of which they very pressingly invited the com-
mittee), on the day appointed, the committee
being met by a considerable number of the na-
tives, the following written address was read
and interpreted to them. Brothers and Friends,
When we were together, eight days ago,
with the Little Turtle and the Five Medals , the
letter was read to them which has just been
read. That letter, you observe, says, that we
were appointed by the people called Quakers
of Baltimore, to visit you, and to take you by
the hand on their behalf, desiring that you
would receive any communications from us, as
coming immediately from them. Brothers,
After that letter was read, our hearts were
filled with so much love for our Red Brethren,
that, on looking over and considering the busi-
ness upon which we had come, we felt a desire
to see as many of you together as could be
convened: and this day was then agreed upon,
for us to meet you. Brothers,
We believed, that the things we had to
say, were of great importance to our Red Bre-
thren; and therefore it was that we requested to
see you together; that you all might have an
opportunity of hearing what we have to say. Brothers,
Our hearts are filled with thankfulness to
the Great Spirit, that he has brought us safely
to the country of our Red Brethren, and pro-
tected us through our journey. We also rejoice
that he has given us this opportunity of seeing
you, and of taking you by the hand. Brothers,
It is now a little more than two years since
your brothers of Baltimore had an opportunity
of becoming acquainted with the Five Medals , the
Little Turtle , Tuthinipee , and some other chiefs.
They were glad of that opportunity of having a
talking with them, and of enquiring after the
situation of their Red Brethren. Brothers,
We had for some time entertained appre-
hensions, that the many changes, which were
taking place in circumstances, must greatly
change the situation of our Red Brethren; and
that the time was fast approaching, in which it
would be necessary for them to alter their mode
of living. Brothers,
After our talk with the chiefs whom we
have just mentioned, we are fully convinced
that the time was come, in which our Red Bre-
thren ought to begin to cultivate their lands.
That they ought to raise corn, and other grain,
also horses, cows, sheep, hogs, and other ani-
mal. We then proposed to afford them some
assistance. They appeared to be glad of the
proposal, and informed us that many of their
people were disposed to turn their attention to
the cultivation of the earth. They also ex-
pressed a desire to be assisted by their brothers
of Baltimore. Brothers,
Having been encouraged by the opportu-
nity which we then had, we sent to the care of
the agent for Indian affairs, some ploughs, har-
ness for horses, axes, hoes, and other imple-
ments of husbandry, which were made for the
use of our Red Brethren; and desired that they
might be distributed amongst them, as tokens
of our friendship. Brothers,
We received last fall, through the hands
of the agent for Indian affairs, a talk from the
Little Turtle , the Five Medals , and others, in-
forming us that they had received the imple-
ments of husbandry; and requesting that their
brothers of Baltimore would send some of their
people into the country of their Red Brethren;
for the purpose of seeing their situation, and
shewing them how to make use of the tools:
saying, they did not know how to begin. Brothers,
It is for these purposes, that we have now
come; and we again repeat, that we rejoice we
have this opportunity of seeing you, and of
taking you by the hand. Brothers,
In coming into the country of our Red
Brethren, we have come with our eyes open.
And although we are affected with sorrow, in
believing, that many of the red people suffer
much, for the want of food, and for the want
of clothing; yet our hearts have been made
glad, in seeing, that it has pleased the Great
Spirit, to give you a rich and valuable country.
Because we know, that it is out of the earth, that
food and clothing come. We are sure, bro-
thers, that, with but little labour and attention,
you may raise much more corn, and other grain,
than will be necessary for yourselves, your wo-
men, and children; and may also, with great
ease, raise many more horses, cows, sheep,
hogs, and other valuable animals, than will be
necessary for your own use. We are also con-
fident, that if you will pursue our method, in
the cultivation of your land, you will live in
much greater ease and plenty, and with much
less fatigue and toil, than attend hunting for a
subsistence. Brothers,
We are fully convinced, that if you will
adopt our mode of cultivating the earth, and of
raising useful animals, you will find it to be a
mode of living not only far more plentiful and
much less fatiguing; but also much more cer-
tain, and which will expose your bodies less, to
the inclemencies of the weather, than hunting.
It will lead you, brothers, to have fixed homes.
You will build comfortable dwelling-houses for
yourselves, you women, and children, where
you may be sheltered from the rain, from the
frost, and from the snow; and where you may
enjoy in plenty the rewards of your labours. Brothers,
In laying these things before you, we have
no other motive, than a desire of heart for the
improvement, the benefit, and the welfare of
our Red Brethren; and therefore it is, that we
speak with freedom; and we hope that what we
have to say, will go in at one ear, and not come
out at the other; but that it will be remembered
by our Red Brethren. For we know, brothers,
that we shall not be ashamed of what we say,
when in time to come, you compare the things
we are saying to you, with your experience in
practising them. Brothers,
We will here mention, that the time was,
when the forefathers of your brothers, the white
people, lived beyond the great water, in the
same manner that our Red Brethren now live.
The winters can yet be counted, when they went
almost naked, when they procured their living
by fishing, and by the bow and arrow in hunt-
ing; and when they lived in houses no better
than yours. They were encouraged by some,
who came from towards the sun-rising, and
lived amongst them, to change their mode
of living. They did change; they cultivated the
earth; and we are sure the change was a happy
one. Brothers and Friends,
We are not ashamed to acknowledge, that
the time was, when our forefathers rejoiced at
finding a wild plum-tree, or at killing a little
game, and that they wandered up and down,
living on the uncertain supplies of fishing and
hunting. But, brothers, for your encourage-
ment, we now mention, that by turning their
attention to the cultivation of the earth, instead
of the plum-tree, they soon had orchards, of
many kinds of good fruit; instead of the wild
game, they soon had large numbers of cattle,
horses, sheep, hogs, and other valuable ani-
mal; an in many places, instead of their fo-
rests, they had large fields of corn and of other
grain, as also of many other valuable produc-
tions of the earth. Brothers,
We hope your eyes will be open, to see
clearly the things which are best for you; and
that you will desire to pursue them. We be-
lieve, brothers, that it is in the heart of your
father, the President of the United States, to
assist his Red children, in the cultivation of the
earth; and to render them services, which will
be greatly for their benefit and welfare. We
hope that your exertions to change your present
mode of living, will be so plain to him, that he
will see them. This will encourage him to con-
tinue to aid you, in your endeavours. Brothers,
We have spoken plainly; we desire to
speak plain. We will now tell you, that we
have not come merely to talk with you. We
have come prepared to render you a little assist-
ance. Our believed brother, Philip Dennis , 
who is now present, has come along with us.
His desire to cultivate for you, a field of corn;
also to show you how to raise some of the other
productions of the earth. He knows how to
use the plough, the hoe, the axe, and other
implements of husbandry. Brothers,
We will here ask you, Are you still desi-
rous to be instructed by us, in the cultivation of
your lands? If you say, you are; our brother,
whom we have just mentioned, will continue
with you, during the summer. We shall leave
it to you, to shew him the spot where to begin
to work. Brothers,
He has left a farm; he has left a wife, and
five small children, who are very dear to him;
he has come from a sincere desire to be useful
to our Red Brethren. His motives are pure; he
will ask no reward from you, for his services;
his greatest reward will be, in the satisfaction he
will feel, in finding you inclined to take hold of
the same tools which he takes hold of; to re-
chive from him instruction in the cultivation of
your lands, and to pursue the example he will
set you. Brothers,
We hope, you will make the situation of
our brother as comfortable as circumstances
will admit. We hope, also, that many of your
young men will be willing to be taught by him,
to use the plough, the hoe, and other imple-
mets of husbandry. For we are sure, brothers,
that as you take hold of such tools, as are in
the hands of the white people, you will find
them to be to you, like having additional hands.
You will also find, that by using them, they
will enable you to do many things, which, with-
out them, cannot be performed. Brothers,
There is one thing more, which we wish to
add. The white people, in order to get their
land cultivated, find it necessary, that their
young men should be employed in it, and not
their women. Women are less than men. They
are not as strong as men. They are not as
able to endure fatigue and toil as men. It is
the business of our women, to be employed in
our houses, to keep them clean, to sew, knit,
spin, and weave; to dress food for themselves
and families; to make clothes for the men and
the rest of their families, to keep the clothing
of their families clean, and to take care of their
children. Brothers,
We desire not to mention too many things
to you; but we must add a little further. We
are fully convinced, that if you will turn your
attention to the cultivation of the earth, to
raising the different kinds of grain, to erecting
mills for grinding grain, to building comfortable
dwelling-houses for your families, to raising
useful animals; amongst others, sheep, for the
advantage of the wool, in making clothing; and to
raising flax and hemp, for your linen; and if
your young women learn to spin, and weave;
that your lives will be much easier, and hap-
pier, than at present; and that your numbers
will increase, and not continue to diminish. As
we before observed, brothers, your land is
good. It is far better than the land, the white
people near the great water cultivate. We are
persuaded, that your land will produce double
the quantity of any kind of grain, or of flax, or
hemp, with the same labour necessary near
the great water. Brothers and Friends,
We shall now end what we have to say, with
informing you, that all the corn, and other pro-
ductions of the earth, which Philip Dennis ,
may raise, we wish our Red Brethren to accept
of, as a token of our friendship. And it is our
desire that the chiefs of the Pottowattomi and
Miami nations, who are now present, added to
our brothers, the Five Medals , Tuthinipee ,
and Philip Dennis , make such a distribution
thereof, as they may think proper. The Indians observed great decorum, and
gave close attention during the delivery of this
address. They respectfully manifested their ap-
probation of the sentiments it contained, by re-
iterated exclamations of applause, and the most
evident demonstrations of satisfaction. In re-
ply, the Little Turtle delivered a speech on be-
half of the council, from which the following
is extracted. Brothers and Friends,
We rejoice, that the Great Spirit has ap-
pointed that we should meet this day; for we
believe, this meeting will be of the utmost con-
sequence to your Red Brethren. Brothres,
The things you have said to us, require our
greatest attention: it is really necessary, that we
 should deliberate upon them. In order to do
 so, we must beg you to leave the paper, upon
which they are written, that we may communi- 
cate them to our chiefs, when they assemble in
Grand Council. Brothers,
You have been very particular in pointing
out to us, the duties of our women; and you
have told us, that in adoptting your mode of
living, our numbers would increase, and not
continue to diminish. In all this, I certainly
agree with you, and I hope my brother chiefs
will also agree with you. Brothers,
Assure your people who sent you here,
tell your old chiefs, that we are obliged to
them, for their friendly offers to assist us, in
changing our present mode of living. Tell them,
it is a great work, that cannot be done immedi-
ately; but that we are the way disposed, and
hope it will take place gradually. The committee remained several weeks a-
mongst the Indians, during which time, they
visited a number of their towns and villages, at
all of which they were received in the most
friendly and hospitable manner. In the course of their journey, they passed
by a settlement of the Wyandots, at Brown’s
Town, or the Rock. They found that the In-
dians at this place, had, since the visit made by
Friends to their nation, in the year 1799, ad-
vanced considerably in agriculture: many of
them having built comfortable houses, and ac-
queried a considerable number of cattle, hogs,
and other domestic animals. And they were in-
formed from good authority, that the Wyandots,
residing at Sandusky, as well as the Shawanees,
on the Auglaize river, and also since the visit,
turned their attention very much towards the
cultivation of their lands. They had therefore
the satisfaction to remark, that the communi-
cations from the committee to these nations;
and the exertions which had been made, to
turn their minds to agriculture; although we
had not been in a situation to extend much
assistance to them, had not been altogether
unavailing. They also visited the place fixed upon for the
settlement of Philip Dennis , on the Wabash
river, about forty miles south-west of Fort-
Wayne; and found its situation to be very ad-
vantages for farming; the soil appearing to
be equal in fertility, to any land in the western
country. To this place there are also two good
mill-seats adjacent; one on the Wabash, which
may be improved without injuring its navigation,
and the other on a stream which falls into that
river, about half a mile below Soon after their return home, a letter was re-
ceived by the committee, from the Indian agent
at Fort-Wayne, informing them that the Indians
had held their council in the Sixth Month,
agreeably to expectation; at which 874 of
them attended; when the written address of
George Ellicott and Gerard T. Hopkins , (who
it appeared had been appointed to visit the In-
dians on behalf of the Society of Friends,) was
produced, read, and interpreted to all the diffe-
rent nations present. In reply to which, divers
of their chiefs expressed great satisfaction; and
amongst others Toethteboxie , on behalf of the
Delawares, said, For many years before I
came into the world, the white people have
been offering to do for us, what is now men-
tioned; and it appears, that our eyes were never
opened, until this time. We will now take hold
of it, and receive it. I am an old man, and
want to see it before I die. If I once see it,
I shall die in peace, to think I have left my
women and children in comfort. On the return of the friend*, [* P. Dennis , probably.] who went out
with the committee, and remained in the Indian
country, during most of the year 1804, he re-
ported that he spent the time agreeably with
them; and was favoured to enjoy a good portion
of health whilst there. He raised about 400
bushels of corn, besides a quantity of turnips,
potatoes, cucumbers, water-melons, pumpkins,
beans, parsnips, and other garden-vegetables;
which he directed to be divided amongst the 
 Indians on their return from their hunting
camps;and left with the family of Indians,
with whom he resided, upon the farm he had
cultivated, 23 hogs and pigs, seven of which
were in good order to kill, and he expected
would weigh 1500 lb. These he engaged the
agent to attend to the killing and salting of.
They were small when brought to the farm in
the spring, and had no other food than what they
gathered in the woods. With some assistance, which he obtained
from Fort-Wayne, he cleared and enclosed un-
der a substantial fence twenty acres of ground,
and built a house, thirty-two feet long and se-
venteen feet wide, a story and a half high, with
floors and partition. He further reported that the Indians, who
remained with him, were very industrious, and
attended to his directions. The young women
wished to work in preparing the ground and
attending the corn. From this he dissuaded them;
and as some spinning-wheels had just arrived at
Fort-Wayne, which had been sent by Govern-
ment, he encouraged them to go there, and
learn to spin and knit, of a white woman who
happened to be at that place. This they did,
and soon learned both to spin and knit ; and he
left them knitting yarn of their own spinning, when
he came away. He also reported, that a considerable number
of Eel-River and Weas Indians were about to
settle near the place he cultivated; and that
previously to his departure, he was with several
of their principal chiefs; who requested him to
tell Friends, that they, and the Indians gene-
rally, were much obliged to them for the assis-
tance they had given them; and hoped we
would continue our friendship towards them,
and that nothing might happen to discourage
us. All the Indians he was amongst, were very
friendly; as was also the agent and other officers
of the Government. As it appeared that the Indians were very
desirous of Friends continuing their care to-
wards them; and sending a person to take the
place of Philip Dennis . After weightily consider-
ing the subject, it was concluded to endeavour
to procure a suitable friend for that purpose;
but none offering to engage in service, and
the committee taking into consideration the low
state of their funds, and the advanced season of
the year; together with the dissatisfied and unset-
tled situation of the Indians at the time, on ac-
count of a sale of land made by some of the tribes
to the United States*; *The uneasiness, which this circumstance occasioned
amongst the Indians has since been entirely removed. thought it might, for the
present season, be best to write to the agent,
and request him, to procure for us, the most
suitable character in his power; who, under his
direction, should plough the land which Philip
Dennis cultivated the last season, and plant it
with corn: in the performance of which it was
hoped he would be assisted by the Indians.
We also observed, that after their corn was
planted, we were willing to believe they would
be able to manage it themselves. Should a
second ploughing however be necessary, we
directed this also to be done. This person was
also desired to prepare for them a garden of the
most useful vegetables, which they might after-
wards easily manage. The committee have since received his answer
to this letter, in which he says, he will lose no
time in complying with their request, and that
he will at all times be ready to put the benevo-
lent concern of Friends, towards the Indians, in
execution. He also says, that at this time, a
spirit of industry exists among the Indians
generally; and that, as several of the tribes,
had requested of Government, to have a part
 of their annuities expended in the employment
of men, to split rails, and make fences for them,
the Delawares had twenty-three thousand
rails put up into fences, the last winter; and
that forty thousand more would be made into
fences for the Miami and Eel-River Indians, by
the first of the Sixth Month. He adds, that ten
families of the Miami have settled adjoining the
place cultivated by Philip Dennis ; and that
four men were employed in making rails to
fence forty acres for them; also, that three
persons more were at work for the Eel-River
Indians, half a mile below Dennis’s station;
that they had twenty-five acres cleared and
ready for the plough, and he expected would
have fifty or sixty acres fenced in by the first
of the Sixth Month. He further adds, that
he expects at least twenty five families of In-
dians will remove to reside at that place the
present season, and he is confident the settlement
will increase very fast. The Indian who worked
during the last season with Philip Dennis was
about building himself a comfortable house, had
cleared two acres more of ground, and was
ploughing the field previously cleared by Philip
Dennis. The hogs which were left there with
him, had increased to one hundred in number. The agent further says, that there would be
one hundred acres of land under good fence, at
the Little Turtle’s Town (eighteen miles north
of Dennis ’s station), by the first of the Sixth
Month; where they had also obtained a large
number of hogs, and some cows; and he doubts
not, but that the Indians will soon see, that it is
easier to raise food, than to procure it by hunt-
ing; and adds, Friends may see, from the great
progress they have made in civilization, since
Philip Dennis was with them, that they only
want good and suitable men to reside amongst
them, and teach them how to work. Notwithstanding there are several other na-
tons, who appear desirous of the assistance and
care of Friends; yet from the limited state of
our funds, we have heretofore been under the
necessity of confining our aid, principally, to
the Miami, Eel-River, and Weas Indians. It will be perceived, that during several years
of the first labours of the committee, but little
progress was made. This may be attributed, in
a great measure, to the pernicious effects of
ardent spirits amongst them. As soon as the
introduction of this great evil into their country
was restrained, there was an immediate im-
provement discoverable; and an almost univer-
sal disposition seemed to pervade them, to aban-
don their former habits of living, and turn to
the cultivation of their lands. Their progress
in civilization has, since then, been much more
rapid, than the most sanguine could have ex
pected; and on comparing the condition of these
Indian tribes, at the time the last deputation from
our committee visited them, with their present
situation, we are of opinion, that there is great
cause of encouragement for Friends to persevere
in the benevolent work they have undertaken;
and strong ground to hope, that our labours
will, in the end, be crowned with the desired
success. When we reflect on the gradual, but con-
tinued decrease of these people, from the time
the Europeans first visited this continent, until
the present; and the many whole tribes, of
which not any trace now remains, except their
names; there is every reason to believe, that
should the Indians continue to pursue their
former mode of life, a few centuries more,
many other whole nations of them will become
entirely extinct. Impressed with this melancholy consideration,
it must be a prospect truly gladdening to the en-
lightened Christian mind, to survey the hasten-
ing of that day, when this part of the human fa-
mily, weaned from savage habits, and allured by
the superior advantages of civil life, shall ex-
change the tomahawk and scalping knife for the
plough and the hoe; and instead of ranging the
forests in seeming affinity to the wild beasts of desert,
shall peacefully and rationally enjoy
the productions of the fruitful field!—Nor is
this all. Added to the cultivation of the earth,
the first step in the view of the committee,
the first step in the view of the committee,
towards many other important temporal advan-
tages, to be derived o this people from civil
life; may not the promotion of this concern,
which has thus far evidently prospered, prepare
for, and prove the means under the DIVINE BLES-
SING, through which, may finally spread and
prevail amongst these, our fellow-men, that
LIGHT and KNOWLEDGE, which so eminently
distinguish the true CHRISTIAN? Baltimore, Eleventh Mo. 1805. POSTSCRIPT. SINCE this narrative was prepared for
publication, a letter has been received from the
agent at Fort-Wayne, dated the 5th of the
Tenth Month, 1805, in which he says, Agreeably to the directions of the commit-
tee, I have employed a man to assist the Indians
in cultivating the field on the Wabash, which
was cleared and cultivated by Philip Dennis last
year. The Indians with the man’s assistance
have raised, it is supposed, at least six hundred
bushels of good corn from this one field, ex-
clusive of what they have raised from ground
of their own clearing. Many of the oldest of the Eel-River and
Weas Indians have removed and settled at that
place, where they will be followed by the
younger branches of their tribes in the ensuing
spring. He adds, Believing as I do, that the Society
of Friends are desirous of a meliorating the situa-
tion of their Red Brethren in this country, I will
take the liberty to observe, that the present is
a very favourable time, to put in execution their
benevolent views, towards the distressed natives
of this land; and that much good may be done
on the Wabash, by sending one or two suit-
able men to reside amongst the Indians, and
teach them how to raise stock, and cultivate the
earth. Witness what Philip Dennis effected
amongst them the last year. At a station where
he had every thing to begin, there are now at
least four hundred hogs and twenty cows; and
the Indians at no village in this country live so
comfortably, as those at that place. If this spirit
of industry is kept alive for a few years, it will
certainly have a powerful influence upon the
minds of the Indians at many of the neighbour-
ing villages. The Indians have lately concluded
a treaty with the United States, which has
settled all their jarring interests. Printed by Phillips & Fardon, George Yard, Lombard Street, London. 