 JOSEPH MOORE'S JOURNAL Of a tour to Detroit, in order to attend a Treaty, proposed to be held with the Indians at San-dusky In the second volume of Friends' Miscellany, was published, Jacob
 Lindley's Account of a Journey to attend this Treaty, with preli
minary remarks and a brief history of the circumstances which led to
 this measure. The following Journal, while it corroborates Jacob
 Lindley's account, presents a view of divers interesting incidents
 and occurrences, not noted in that narrative. Joseph Moore was a
 valuable friend and minister belonging to Kingwood monthly meet-
ing, New Jersey. The place of his residence was near Flemington. On the 17th of 4th mo. 1793, I set out for Philadel-
phia, and attended the meeting for sufferings, where
 were divers Friends who had given up to attend the
 Indian treaty proposed to be held at Sandusky, on
 the waters of Lake Erie — having previously obtained 
certificates from our several monthly meetings for
 that purpose. The commissioners appointed by go-
vernment are,general Lincoln , colonel Pickering ,
 and Beverly Randolph . Lincoln goes by water to 
Albany, &c. ; William Savery , Jacob Lindley , and
 William Hartshorne , go with him: and John Par-
rish, John Elliott , and myself, with Timothy Pick-
ering and Beverly Randolph , go through the coun-
try by land. I have some days past, been very poor-
ly with the ague; but am now bravely. 30th. In the afternoon set out in company with 
 Beverly Randolph ,John Parrish , John Elliott , and
 Henry Cornplanter , or Obeal — got that evening to
 Norristown , where colonel Pickering met us. Next
 day we proceeded to Reading — thence to Harris-
burgh and over the Broad Mountain, Mackinoy, and
 Tuscarora, to Sunbury — thence crossed the Susque-
hanna at Northumberland, a town standing in the
 point where the east and west branches come toge-
ther. Here, leaving the commissioners behind, we,
 in company with Josiah Haines , proceeded to Wil-
liam Ellis's, and attended Muncy meeting of Friends.
 After which, went to Samuel Wallace 's, where we
 met the commissioners, and were liberally and friend-
ly entertained. 5th mo. 6th. The forepart of this day, we passed
 a rapid stream, called the Loyalsock — and in the af-
ternoon we crossed another large stream, called Ly-
coming, seven times — lodged at James Kyle 's. Next
 day rode forty-three miles without any entertain-
ment on the way, except what we had with us. —
 Where we put up, there was no hay to be had for
 our horses, so we fed them with oats, and tied them
 up for the night— went to bed, or rather lay on the
 floor with our own blankets, in a very small house;
 but rested well. In the morning, the weather was
 fine and pleasant — rode to major Samuel Lindley 's,
 crossed the Tioga twice, and the Cownisky; then to
 the Painted Post, crossing the Cohocton at David
 Fuller's. On our way here, we swam our horses
 over the Tioga, and went ourselves in a canoe. The
 country from Northumberlandto this place, abounds
 with large streams of water, and abundance of flat
 land on their banks, exceedingly rich. We observed
 in many places, old Indian fields, with signs of the 
 old corn hills. On each side of these creeks and flats,
 are ridges of mountains. We have now travelled ac-
cording to the several distances from place to place,
 two hundred, and forty-seven miles. 9th. Rode about thirty miles, and a little be-
fore night, got to an old Indian cabin, with fire in
the middle, where we lodged. We let our horses
 browse awhile in the woods, then fed them with oats
 we had with us, and tied them up for the night. —
 This cabin stands on the bank of the Cohocton . The
 roads here are new, and of course rough, which is
 trying to the poor horses that are rid hard all day,
 and at night tied to a tree. Next day, rode thirty-
 six miles to Williamsburgh. Some parts of the road
 very rough. We passed over some of the steepest
 hills I ever saw travelled. But the country is new
 — and I have no doubt in a few years, the roads will
 be much improved, as there is abundance of excel-
lent land that is settling fast in some places. Stayed
 this night at captain Charles Williamson 's, where we
 were kindly entertained. 11th. This morning the commissioners despatch-
ed a messenger to Canandaigua for an interpreter;
 so we rested here and were finely refreshed. Set
 out again next day, and rode to Gilbert Berry 's, on
 the bank of the Genesee river. Here we found
 about fifty Indians collected, amongst whom were
 some of their chiefs; Farmer's Brother , Red Jacket ,
 Little Billy , and others, to all of whom a dinner
 was given by the commissioners. They expressed
 their gladness in seeing us, and we also in seeing
 them. In the evening we had some weighty con-
versation together, wherein the commissioners im-
parted a little of their business concerning the treaty; 
 which appeared to give general satisfaction. After
 which, the Indians gave our friend John Parrish a
 new name, which they in their language call Sutte-
kutte, and signifies plain or level. This name was
 given by Farmer's Brother , at which there was a
 small shout, in their way, and they would have given
 us a song on the occasion; but understanding we were
 a plain people, not accustomed to singing, it was
 omitted, and nothing further followed than a little
 pleasantry. Near ten o'clock we all retired and 
 rested bravely. In the morning the Indians showed no inclination
 to depart while the commissioners were here.Red
 Jacket , at the close of one of his speeches last even-
ing, signified, that when he was in Philadelphia, the
 white people had proposed a method for them to
 turn buffaloes into cows, deer into sheep, and bears
 into hogs; he thought it now a fit time for the com-
missioners to show them a piece of their skill; as
 they were now on their way to Canandaigua for
 some clothing, &c, and that a good buffalo would be
 very agreeable for provision on the way. The com-
missioners used some endeavours to obtain a fat cow;
 but as there was none to be had here, they gave them
 a quantity of salt beef, pork, and corn, at which they
 appeared satisfied. 14th. We prepared to move forward; divers other
 people fell in company with us from Schenectady 
and other places, who were going into Upper Cana-
da. We swam our horses over the Genesee river
 with some difficulty, and we, with our baggage,
 crossed in a canoe. In the evening we put up in the
 woods by the side of Tonnewanta creek, where we
 sheltered for the night with a good fire, and tied up 
 our horses as before. The following day we travel-
led hard, being very desirous to reach some house
 to lodge in. According to the account given us, we
 rode about fifty miles, and truly we thought them
 long enough. Arrived at Buffalo Creek about sun
 set, and put up at landlord Winney 's; most of us
 lodged on the floor and slept well; also, had plenty
 of grass for the horses. The country we have pass-
ed through the last two days, is Indian lands, and
 one continued wilderness. Much of the land ap-
pears very good, with a variety of timber, such as
 oak, hickory, sugar maple, elm, ash, beech, linn,
 pine, cherry, butternut, &c. 16th. Rode about three miles to the ferry, nearly
 opposite Fort Erie, most of the way along the beach
 of Lake Erie. Here we crossed over the outlet of
 the lake, a large and strong current, landed in the
 British dominions, and rode down the banks of the
 river to Charles Willson 's near the great falls. The
 whole distance to this place is four hundred and
 twenty-seven miles. In the evening, walked to
 the brow of the bank to view the mighty cataract.
 Next morning went again, descended a very steep
 hill and walked to the rock over which the water
falls, which appears tremendous indeed. There are
 rapids above the cataract that fall, it is said, fifty feet
 (and it looks likely to be so) within the distance of
 little more than half a mile. After satisfying our
 curiosity here, the commissioners went on to gover-
nor Simcoe's, at Navy Hall, sixteen miles. This is
 nearly opposite the garrison, which stands on a point
 of land in the United States. John Parrish , John
 Elliott, and myself, went about two miles to our 
 friend William Lundy's , where we were kindly en-
tertained, and spent most of the next day. 19th. Being first of the week, and having appoint-
ed a meeting to be held here at the eleventh hour;
 about the time there attended a pretty large collection
 of people, more than the house could contain. We
 thought it a favoured opportunity. After dinner we
 had a solid opportunity with the family and divers
 friends who had stayed with us. Then went about six
 miles to our friend John Hill's , who, with his wife,
 had been at the meeting. Here we were kindly en-
tertained and lodged. In the morning, had a solid
 opportunity with the family, and set out for Navy
 Hall, a messenger having been sent to invite us to
 dine with the governor. He appears to be a plain
 man, and remarkably easy of access. At table we
 had the company of the commissioners, colonel But-
ler, majors Little , Hales , &c. The governor, when
 we were walking in his garden, said our coming for-
ward at this time, did our society great honour. To-
ward evening we rode up the lake about two miles
 to landlord Peacock 's, and lodged. 21st. We went up the lake twelve miles to Ben-
jamin Paulin's and his brother Jesse 's — our friend,
 John Parrish , having a letter from their connexions in
 Philadelphia. Here we were kindly entertained. In
 the woods we came through, we observed the great-
est quantity of pigeons, I think I ever saw; they
 were flying up the lake, being chiefly young ones,
 and very fat. The people take abundance of them
 with clubs, poles, &c. 22d. The weather has been warm and dry since
 the time of our arrival in this country. I continue
 very poorly, but went three miles to our friend John 
 Taylor's, though hardly able to travel. Here we
 were kindly treated and lodged. I believe many
 were made glad in seeing their friends come amongst
 them, for whom in their wilderness situation, we
 often felt near sympathy. 23d. I felt much better in health, and understand-
ing divers Friends live at a place called the Short
 Hills, about twelve miles off, we concluded to go
 there. On the way we dined at Thomas Rice 's, and
 thence proceeded to Joshua Gillam 's. We passed
 through some land where we saw the effects of a
 hurricane that was on the 1st of the 7th month last,
 and truly I may say, I never saw so great destruc-
tion of timber. For about two miles in width, and
 said to be many miles in length, there was scarce a
 single tree left that was not torn up by the roots, or
 broken off. This tract, as far as we have passed over,
 appears excellent land, with a variety of good tim-
ber — white and black oak, hickory, chestnut, poplar,
 white pine, walnut, cherry, &c. We, finding a few
 Friends settled in this neighborhood, concluded to
 stay amongst them over first-day, and have a meet-
ing with them. In the interval, we visited at James
 Crawford's, Enoch Scrigley 's, and John Dorlin g's,
 where the meeting is proposed to be held. 26th. We had a considerable gathering of people
 that behaved orderly, among whom we had a satis-
factory opportunity. In the afternoon, set out on
 our way to Navy Hall , and lodged at Jeremiah
 Moore's. Having heard of the arrival of the other
 Friends that came by the way of Albany, we rose
 early next morning, and went to our friend Benja-
min Hill's, where we took breakfast — then rode to
 the landing, and thence to Navy Hall. Spent a little 
 time at the governor's, and went back to the landing,
 where we met with Jacob Lindley , William Savery ,
 and William Hartshorne , who had come on by wa-
ter. Our stores were landed here, and we all dined
 at captain Smith 's, at the mess house. In the after-
noon we set up our tents on the hill, and lodged all
 together. This seemed very pleasant, being all in
 health, and they having had a favourable passage from
 New York to this place, and very agreeable compa-
ny with general Lincoln , in their covered batteaux ,
 two of which they propose taking up to Lake Erie. 28th. Having had a good night's rest in our tents,
 were in the morning all bravely. When we shall
 move forward from this place appears at present un-
certain, as the commissioners sent off an express yes-
terday to Philadelphia on some important occasion,
 and expect to wait his return. Young Cornplanter 
 went some days ago to his father's, about one hun-
dred and fifty miles from this place. The Indians,
 we understand, are gathering from many parts to the
 place appointed. Some of the Mohawks are now
 here. We shortly expect a number of the Five Na-
tions. Jacob Lindley being desirous to see Jeremiah
 Moore, we two rode there, spent the afternoon, and
 lodged. The weather cool and cloudy, with east-
erly winds. The next day was rainy. We are now
 within about three miles of the great cataract — the
 noise of which is much like the roaring of the sea in
 time of storm. The people gave us a particular ac-
count of their distressed situation, about four years
 ago, for want of bread, and their loss of cattle and
 horses; which was truly alarming ; but through the
 goodness of kind Providence, they have now plenty 
 of bread and other necessaries; and plenty of good
 sugar which they make from the maple tree. 30th. John Elliott came up from our camp at the
 landing, and we, with Jeremiah Moore and Benjamin
 Hill, went to the Falls, where Jacob had not been,
 and viewed them in a different direction from what
 we had done before. In this as well as many other
 things, the mighty works of Providence are emi-
nently displayed, being far beyond the power of hu-
man art to form. Some of our company descended
 the mighty hill, by the clefts of rocks and the help
 of Indian ladders, to the water below, supposed one
 hundred and ten feet. Here they saw divers curi-
osities, and brought up some memorials of stone,
 bones, &c. We then returned to our camp, and I
 lodged at Benjamin Canby 's. 31st. We had at our little camp, the company of
 captain Hendricks and several other Indians, that fed
 on our provisions — and a white man, lately from
 Pittsburg, informed that the Indians from the south-
ward were coming on. 6th. mo. 1st. The weather wet and little business
 to be done — though the article provision meets with
 a large consumption — we being all in pretty good
 health, and for the most part a number of Indians and
 others at our camp. The commissioners are most of
 the time at Navy Hall with governor Simcoe. We
 expect to move forward in a day or two, towards
 Fort Erie, to take passage in a vessel for Detriot —
 the commissioners not likely to go from this under
 a week or ten days. We endeavour to fill up our
 time in seeing our friends. This afternoon John Par-
rish and John Elliott , crossed the river and went to 
 an Indian settlement of about eighty families, who
 received them kindly. 2d, and first of the week, we held a meeting about 
four miles from the landing, in a large barn, of which
 previous notice had been given. The collection was
 large, and proved a solid opportunity. I hope it
 tended to the advancement of our religious testimo-
ny. Divers Friends came many miles to attend it.
 After which, William Savery and William Harts-
horne returned to our camp, in order to send for-
ward our baggage to-morrow to the upper landing
 above the Falls. John Parrish , Jacob Lindley ,John
 Elliott , and myself, went to Jeremiah Moore 's and
 dined — thence to William Lundy 's and lodged. Es-
quire Burch was at meeting, and kept company with
 us thus far. 3d. Went on to esquire Burch 's, where we dined.
 Bought three barrels of flour and sent forward to
 Chipaway, to be carried on with the rest of our
 baggage, to Fort Erie. John Parrish , John Elliott 
, and myself, rode up the river about seven miles and
 lodged at our friend Richardsun's . Next morning
 went to Benjamin Willson 's, whose wife is a near
 relation of mine. Benjamin went with us six miles
 to the Fort. Here are the king's stores, and a har-
bour for shipping — several topsail vessels were then
 lying here. We went on board the Dunmore, cap-
tain Ford, bound to Detroit. The cabin passengers
 besides ourselves were Robert Inne , Newman 
 and servant, Richard Hillery and servant, Dr. Wil-
liam M'Casky, John Heckevvelder and William
 Willson. These, with the sailors and marines(be
ing a king's ship) and about sixty Indians of four
 different tribes bound to the treaty, made our whole
 crew about ninety. We left our horses in the care
 of Benjamin Willson — next day set sail and steered
 up the lake. We had fine pleasant weather until the
 8th, when being near the islands towards the head 
of the lake, and dark night coming on us, we stood
 off and on till morning — had several squalls of rain,
 and short blasts of high wind, with thunder and
 lightning — which was somewhat alarming, as our
 ship had on board a large quantity of powder. But
 through the goodness of kind Providence we were
 preserved from damage. 9th, and first of the week; — fine pleasant morning
 with light airs of wind. The islands now appeared
 in sight. This day we had a small meeting in the
 cabin with our fellow passengers and two Indian
 chiefs. In the evening entered the mouth of Detriot
 river, and anchored till morning; when we ran up
 the beautiful river a northerly course, with a fair
 wind to Detroit. This is a small garrison town, with
 a variety of inhabitants. Here is much of the sound
 of drums and trumpets, but not much religion. The
 people here, as well as those on board our ship, were
 very respectful to us — and there was great harmony
 amongst ourselves. Thanks be to kind Providence
 for all his unmerited favours. Here we landed our
 small baggage, and took lodgings at Matthew Dol-
son's for the present. 11th. Found our accommodations comfortable and
 easy. We visited the commandant,colonel Eng-
land, and showed him our passport from governor 
 Simcoe, at Niagara, and are now waiting the com-
missioners coming forward, which we hope may be
 soon. From the present complexion of things, it
 looks likely to be some time before the treaty com-
 mences; so that we find patience very necessary to
 be exercised. We hear many sentiments expressed,
 some favourable and some otherwise. Hope our
 minds may not be diverted by either from that hum-
ble dependence on the omnipotent Arm of power,
 under whose banner, I trust, we have enlisted in the
 righteous cause of peace-makers. 12th. Took a walk down the bank of the river,
 about three miles to a fine spring, of which there
 are few hereabouts. The inhabitants mostly use the
 river water, which is said to be very wholesome.
 The banks of this river for many miles above and
 below the town, are very thickly settled, mostly
 with French, who have fine orchards and meadows,
 and good wheat growing. Their grain is mostly
 manufactured by wind-mills, of which there are
 many in sight. The inhabitants of the town are as
 great a mixture, I think, as I ever knew in any one
 place. English, Scotch, Irish, Dutch, French, Ame-
ricans from different states, with black and yellow,
 and seldom clear of Indians of different tribes in the
 day time. These are all turned out by nine o'clock
 at night, and the gates are shut — sentries are placed
 constantly in various parts round tire town, which is 
enclosed with high pickets. There is no place of wor-
ship except one Roman Catholic chapel. There are
 large ships employed on these waters, some of which
 are from one hundred to one hundred and fifty tons
 burden; they sail up to Michillimackinac, several
 hundred miles from this place, and return with
 abundance of peltry — the staple commodity of this
 country. 13th. John Parrish , John Elliott , and myself,
 dined with the commandant, colonel Richard Eng-
land, and a number of other officers, and were friend-
ly and liberally entertained. 14th. Took passage in a small boat, bound up the
 river Latrench, on the east side of Lake St. Clair, 
 with a fair wind — passed through the lake, more than
 twenty miles over, and went up the river about fif-
teen miles, to Isaac Dolson 's, where we lodged. —
 Next day, with some Indians in a canoe, proceed-
ed up the river about twenty miles, to Edward
 Watson's, son of Thomas , of New York
, an intimate
 acquaintance. The respect I felt for him and his
 connections induced me to take this tour to see him,
 and know how he fared here. He and his wife re-
ceived me kindly. They are connected with the
 Moravian brethren, and were very civil to me. John 
Heckewelder, Indian interpreter and Moravian 
minister, was passenger with me as far as Dolson 's,
 where he took horse and went up the river to visit
 his brethren at a settlement of that people. This
 appears to be a beautiful new country, just settling;
 fine wheat, corn, peas, &c. now growing, and grass
 in abundance; — the timber, white and black oak,
 cherry, hickory, black and white walnut, ash, linn,
 poplar, &c. I am informed it continues in that way
 for one hundred and fifty miles up this river — the
 the general course of which runs about east from its
 mouth, and the farther up, it is said, the better the
 land. The inhabitants here appear to want as much
 cultivation as the lands they live on. May the Lord's
 power so reach their hearts, as to bring them into
 subjection to his Divine will. 16th, and first of the week, after breakfast took
 leave of this family in a solid manner, and returned
 to Dolson 's: on the way, called at several houses 
 where divers were collected, being much accustom-
ed to visit each other on first-days, — among whom
 I had several opportunities for religious conversa-
tion, and informing them of our principles. 17th. The boat being ready for sailing, having on
 board about twenty-five bushels of wheat, we got
 under way, and had a pleasant passage to the town,
 where we arrived about ten o'clock in the evening.
 The gates being shut, we were obliged to lodge with-
out the pickets. 18th. Went early into the town — found all my
 dear friends well; they gave me an account of two
 public meetings held by them; one with the inhabi-
tants of the town and soldiers, and a number of the
 officers, in the forenoon; and another in the country
 in the afternoon, both to pretty good satisfaction.
 Jacob Lindley , William Savery , and William Harts-
horne, dined with the commandant yesterday.With
 respect to Indian affairs, things look dull and gloomy
 — the commissioners not yet come forward; so that
 we are here in suspense with respect to the time of 
 the opening of the treaty, and hear many frightful 
 stories about the conduct of the Indians; but we en-
deavour to keep our minds quiet, trusting in the
 arm of divine power for preservation, and believing
 we are engaged in the righteous cause of promoting
 peace on earth and good will to men. 19th. William Savery not very well — the rest
 of our company, to wit, Friends, went down the
 river in a small boat, about four miles, to Frederick
 Arnold's, where we dined — then went on foot about
 two miles to John Messemer 's, who is of the reli-
gious society called Dunker's, — with whom and
divers of his friends and neighbours we held a 
 meeting, which was a solid, satisfactory opportuni-
ty, I believe, to them and us. Here we lodged. 20th. After a solid opportunity with the family,
 we went on towards our boat — dined at Francis
 Cornwell’s; the weather being wet and the wind
 ahead, William Hartshorne and I lodged here — the
 rest of our company went to Frederick Arnold 's. 21st. In the afternoon, John Elliott and Jacob
 Lindley went on foot up the river and crossed over
 to the town. The others lodged here — being very
 kindly entertained. 22d. Set out and rowed up to the town — found
 William Savery and the rest of our company all
 well. We have frequently been visited by num-
bers of the Indian chiefs that were on their way to
 Sandusky, who mostly called us Shemucteman, or
 long knives, the term they use to describe the Ame-
ricans of the United States; but when informed what
 we were, they signified they had heard of our being
 come, and were glad. This day, we were visited
 by several that had just come to town. We observ-
ed the generality of all the tribes had a remarkable
 thirst for rum; and when intoxicated, were very
 troublesome. 23d. First of the week, we held a meeting in a
 large sail loft in the shipyard; had a considerable
 gathering of the town's people, and a few soldiers,
 who behaved quietly. The meeting held about two
 hours and a half, and I believe, ended well. In the
 afternoon had some more Indians to visit us, of the
 Chipaway nation; one of whom, called a chief, was
 pretty clean dressed, which is not general among
 that nation. 24th. Our landlord's boat set out for the river
 Rushe, with grain, to the mill. I took passage
 therein with William Savery . Matthew Dolson 
 met us at the mill, and William returned with him
 in the evening; I stayed all night at Jacob Troxler 's,
 a Dutchman, who served his time in Jersey. The
 people were as kind as it was in their power. 25th. The boat with the cargo being ready, we
 rowed most of the way home, being about ten
 miles. This river is called Rushe, which signifies
 red, and the water appears stained with something
 which causes it to appear with remarkable red-
ness. 26th. John Heckewelder returned from Latrench 
 river; with him came a number of the Moravian
 Indians, who adhere to the religion of that family
 of the brethren. We understand they suffered
 much in the time of the late war, and since, — hav-
ing had a number of their friends killed by the
 white people, with the loss of most of their sub-
stance, of which they had plenty while in their
 peaceable habitations at Muskingum. They were
 now in the sixth place of their retreat, in the Bri-
tish government, and on good land. Our commis-
eration was excited by the above account, and we
 granted some relief to the amount of one hundred
 dollars, which they received thankfully. 27th. The Indians are every day here, on their
 way to the treaty. Twenty-eight are just arrived
 from Michillimackinac, some of whom I saw this
 morning; they were well dressed, curiously painted,
 and decorated with wampum, and ear and nose bobs;
 all young, and the handsomest I think I have as
 yet seen. They appeared good humoured and plea-
sant, 
 having, as I was informed, brought no arms or
 warlike instruments with them, except their bows
 and arrows, with flutes for music, of their own
 making, which appeared simple, but pleasing to
 themselves. Some of the British officers asked
 them to play, which they readily did, by putting
 the instrument to the mouth, and sometimes to the
 nose; as handily to the one as the other. This evening had the company of capt. John Drake ,
 a coaster between this and Mackinaw, distant one
 hundred and thirty leagues — sails in a sloop of se-
venty or eighty tons burthen. He gave us some
 account of the north-west fur trade, and the man-
ner of its being carried on by the companies con-
cerned, who employ many hundred men, that stay
 many years in the country, travelling and trading
 with the northern Indians for peltry; an abundance
 of which, of the richest kind, is brought from the
 high northern latitudes, which nets the companies
 very large profit. But among what people, or in
 what part of the world, except the Canadian French,
 could persons be found for their purpose, I know
 not. They are allowed a very small portion of
 provisions from this to the Grand Portage, at the
 head of Lake Superior, which is about eight hun-
dred miles; there they are allowed about one bushel
 (forty-two quarts French measure) of Indian corn
 per man, for a year, and a little fat, which they
 may use at their own discretion. The corn is pre-
pared in a curious manner at Detroit, being first
 boiled in strong lye, which takes off the outside
 hull; afterwards it is spread out and dried, then
 packed up for use. With this they set out, and re-
 turn not until the end of the year, when a fresh 
 supply of goods is taken up with canoes, &c. by
 many hundred men to the Portage, where they ex-
change commodities to a very great amount. Thus
 goes on the trade from year to year. The men in
 the north live principally on fish, and the flesh of
 beasts of divers kinds, without bread or salt, and
 when they return appear as robust and healthy, and
 even more so than those who live on the greatest
 delicacies. The principal fish in Lake Superior are
 the white fish and salmon trout, which are fine
 and delicate: we have eat of them, brought fresh from
 the lake to this place in six days. We understand one M'Kenzie is now out with
 ten men, exploring the North-west Territory : he
 once attempted it before; was out more than a year,
 and discovered large frozen waters in the north, but,
 whether lakes or ocean, he knew not — supposed the
 latter, the water being salt. Captain Drake , by his own account, had been se-
veral voyages to Africa, in the horrid business of 
fetching slaves, which he now very much condemns.
 He told us many curious tales; — and is certainly
 a very temperate man with respect to drink, taking
 nothing but water — a rare instance in a seafaring
 man. Happy would it be for many thousands in
 the world, were his example followed in that re-
spect; families would be preserved from ruin and
 distress, morality increase, the poor Indians be
 saved from many acts of violence, and the end of
 our creation be more fully answered by honouring
 God, our Creator. 28th. We are frequently visited by the officers of
 this place, both civil and military, who appear
 friendly, and treat us with much respect, often 
 wishing us success in our laudable undertaking; as-
suring us, that nothing should be wanting that lay
 in their power, to render us happy and comfortable.
 The commandant said, that if he apprehended dan-
ger at any time, he should lay his commands on us
 not to depart the place. But, although we sought
 not the protection of military power, we were not
 insensible of his great good will towards us, which
 we were not wanting to acknowledge. Visits from the Indians are almost every day re-
peated, by different tribes constantly coming in,
, this being the thoroughfare for all the northern In-
dians. It would be difficult to describe the various
 appearances they make, and languages they speak.
 It is wonderful to find the vast expense the British
 government is at with this people. Governor Sim-
coe said it cost them thirty thousand pounds per an-
num. Here are agents appointed, that are daily
 giving out large quantities of provision, &c. 29th. This day had a visit from a Wyandot chief,
 who appeared to have much concern respecting the
 approaching treaty, and mentioned the remem-
brance of some long and broad belts that were given
 out in former treaties, intended to bind us by the
 hands and arms, so that no small accident in future
 should be able to make a separation; and, notwith-
standing all that had happened, they (the Wyan-
dots) felt some of the old affection to remain, and he
 hoped we would find it so at the general council;
 but could speak for none but themselves. We as-
sured him we had the same love and friendship for
 them and all others, as our forefathers had, and that
 our principles had always restrained us from war;
 and when we believed the government was disposed 
 to make peace with them on principles of justice,
 we were made willing to leave our homes and take
 this long journey to endeavour to promote it, and
 to be present at the concluding of so good a work.
 He said, he knew long ago, we did not fight, but
 were for peace, and that, as we had come a long
 journey, preserved in health, it was evident the
 Great Spirit was pleased with our coming, and he
 hoped some good would be done, and that the
 Great Spirit would bring us home in health and
 safety. We had a visit also this morning from Abram , an
 Indian chief, Katharine his wife, and their daugh-
ters, richly clad, with plates of silver, &c. The introduction of distilled spirits among the
 people appears to have been their ruin. The frauds,
 in consequence of it, imposed upon them, taking in
 the ravages and depredations of war made amongst
 themselves, with multiplied murders and thefts,
 seems to have prevented their being a wealthy peo-
ple. The contrary with many is sorrowfully their 
 situation, I fear to our condemnation; yet the his-
tory of Indian barbarity, and breach of faith to
 white people, and to one another, which we have
 heard related since we came here, would be shock-
ing to recite, and is almost at times ready to stagger
 the faith of their best friends. One of the Moravian
 missionaries signified his sense, that if peace should
 be concluded, it would not last long, until they were
 further chastised. John Parrish asked, by what
 means? Did he mean the sword? He was answered,
 yes. This sentiment, from one of those who make
 profession of the peaceable principles of the gospel,
 was really discouraging. We often hear many frightful things suggested; as,
 that we shall be either killed, or kept as hostages at
 the ensuing council. This, with the accounts of the
 Indian warriors in time past, frequently passing with
 numbers of scalps and their disconsolate prisoners,
 seemed dreadful; yet we are not discouraged from
 pursuing our first prospect; believing he that put us
 forth, will go before us, if we are not wanting on our
 part. It must be said to the honour of British humani-
ty, and in commendation of this government of Up-
per Canada, and its truly respectable and generous
 officers, that they have interfered to the relief of
 great numbers of persons, and obtained their redemp-
tion at a great price; divers of whom that we met
 with appeared as the outcasts of Europe ; some of
 them, as colonel England" and other officers told us,
 hardly had manners or gratitude to acknowledge
 the kindness, though in some instances it cost one
 hundred pounds. But in the case of a real Ameri-
can, they never grudged it. 30th. First of the week. This morning we were
 visited by a principal man of the Wyandots, called
 the Blind Chief , with his nephew, grand, and great
 grandson; with whom we had some friendly con-
versation. He told us eight of their principal men
 were gone on to the council. We held meetings
 fore and afternoon in the king's sail loft, to a good
 degree of satisfaction; being largely attended by the
 citizens, officers, and soldiers, who behaved quietly. 7th mo. 1st. Took breakfast with captain Elliot ,
 Indian commissioner. After which, went to the bu-
rial of Isidore Shone at the Roman chapel. He was
 an old Indian interpreter, supposed to have shorten- ed his days by the immoderate use of strong drink.
 On this occasion there was a good deal of form and
 ceremony, in their way. 2d. Yesterday arrived the ship Ottoway, captain
 Cowan , from Fort Erie. He brought about eighty
 Indians — more than sixty were landed at Mia-
mi rapids, with colonel Butler ; eighteen of the Onei-
das were on board here. It was said Butler was
 fearful they might be hurt by some other Indians
 that were there, on account of some dislike they had
 to one of their chiefs, who had given his interest in
 favour of the Americans, in such a manner as to cre-
ate jealousies amongst them. They, notwithstand-
ing apprehend themselves quite safe in the British
 lines, where the tribes of all the nations from east,
 west, north, and south, are daily supplied with pro-
visions, &c. And we hear nothing but wishes for 
 peace among the people every where. This day we crossed the river in our landlord's
 boat, with himself, wife, &c. to his farm, where we
 regaled ourselves with fine ripe cherries, and to-
wards evening returned. The weather very warm,
 and for many days past it has been very wet — but
 through divine favour we are all preserved in good
 health. 3d. We had a visit from colonel England , who is
 constantly manifesting his regard in a very respect-
ful manner. He invited us to walk with him to his
 garden, and some of our company went. We had
 also the company, at our lodgings, of a young Shaw-
neese chief, neatly and richly dressed in Indian
 style; he stayed and dined with us, behaving with
 decency at table. But we sometimes find great dif-
ficulty in conversing with the Indians, in such man-
 tier as we wish, on account of our interpreter's sen-
timents and prospects differing in some respects so
 widely from ours. 4th. I was this day very poorly with a fever.—
 We were visited by fourteen of the Indians that
 came in the Ottoway, with one Shawnee, who find-
ing our doctor M'Caskey had been with St. Clair's
 army at the time of the defeat, told him, you're
 my friend, though you ran away from me once. The commissioners are not yet arrived — we are
 still in suspense, and weary of our long detention
 here — though we are well supplied with provisions,
 &c, and decently treated by our respectable land-
lord and landlady, as well as by the inhabitants in
 general, being often invited to dine, &c. In the even-
ing I felt better and slept pretty well. 5th. We are much confined within the narrow
 limits of this small garrisoned town, where, the
 streets being narrow, there is a want of air. A fa-
vourable opportunity presenting for a small tour on
 the water, we, except William Savery and William
 Hartshorne, went in a boat, provided by our friend
 William Baker , up the river about nine miles, to
 Nathan Williams 's, where we were kindly received,
 and dined. His place is situate at the entrance of
 Lake St. Clair. While here, Nathan gave us an ac-
count, that in digging a cave for a root house, they
 found, about six feet below the surface of the
 ground, large quantities of human bones, that must
 have been for a long time there: and at another
 place on the bank of the lake, it being washed away
 when the lake was high, there were seen great
 numbers of the same kind, which they gathered up
 and buried. The Indians said they must have been 
 from people a great while ago that they knew no-
thing of. There is also near this lake, as we are in-
formed, the appearance of old forts, curiously made
 in ancient time, where pieces of earthenware are
 often found, though large trees are now standing in
 the entrenchments, of which the present Indians
 can give no account. We seem pretty generally led
 to believe, from various circumstances, that the na-
tives of this land must be the descendants of old
 Jacob, and are of the scattered tribes, who probably
 found their way here through Russia, and crossed
 over the narrow strait from Kamschatka to the west
 side of America. Be all this as it may, we find them
 here in great numbers, at present a savage, barbarous
 people when at war, and more particularly when in-
toxicated with strong drink, which has been intro-
duced by the white people that suppose themselves
 by far their superiors in religious and natural under-
standing. Happy would it have been for them and
 us, had we used those superior talents, in mercy
 conferred upon us, more to the honour of God, by
 following the example of our holy leader, Christ
 Jesus, who said he came not to destroy men's lives,
 but to save them. May all Christendom more and
 more labour to experience a renovation of heart and
 mind, submitting and conforming to the will of hea-
ven in all our conduct, consistent with the design of
 our creation. Then might we have reason to hope
 for a blessing on our labours, tending to stop the
 effusion of human blood, and the establishment of
 Christ's kingdom on the mountain of love and holi-
ness, where the lion and the lamb might lie down
 together, there being nothing to make us afraid.
 In the afternoon we re-embarked and returned to 
 town. Wm. Savery and Wm. Hartshorne in our
 absence, were visited by a Shawnese warrior, who
 announced to them what had frequently been sug-
gested to us before, by divers persons, that if the
 commissioners did not immediately agree that all
 the land west of the Ohio should be given up by the
 United States, or even hinted any thing to the con-
trary, by offering gifts or money as purchase, that
 not one of them or their company would go off the
 ground alive; for their fathers, who were all gone,
 had sold lands for knives, rum, &c. till they were
 now driven almost to the sun setting, where they
 were determined to make a stand. He also pointed
 out very sensibly, the sad effects strong drink had
 on their fathers in general. He then appeared per-
fectly sober — informing that four days before he left
 the Miami Rapids, a deputation of two chiefs from
 a tribe, embarked for Niagara to meet the commis-
sioners, and let them know the outlines of their con-
clusions; and that if the white people would settle
 to the banks of the Ohio on the east side, and agree
 that the river should be the line, they would be glad,
 and take them by the hand and call them brothers.
 But we apprehended no such power lay with the
 commissioners, nor of its being the design of govern-
ment, — the cloud looked dark and heavy, and por-
tended some dreadful scenes of desolation, except
 the Lord should be pleased, in his abundant mercy,
 to interpose and spare this wicked generation. The aforesaid Indian, notwithstanding his sensi-
bility and calmness, about two hours after, returned
 much intoxicated with rum — behaved very rudely,
 and drew a stroke with his tomahawk at one Sylves-
ter Ash, an interpreter, who had long resided with 
 the Shawnese, and now lives at Fort Pitt. We sup-
posed he had a grudge against him for leaving them;
 but Ash prevented his doing him mischief. This,
 with other insolent behavior to our landlord, caused
 captain Munsey , who was there, to send for some
 soldiers to turn him out of the garrison. These
 things look gloomy, and tend to confirm us that no-
thing short of wisdom from above will do for us to
 lean to. 6th. The weather is now dry and warm — the
 wheat it fast ripening, of which there is an appear-
ance of very fine crops. Vegetables are plenty,
 such as new potatoes, peas, beans, &c. The sloop
 Felicity just arrived from the Miamies, confirms
 the account of the Indian deputation being gone to
 meet the commissioners at Niagara, accompanied by
 colonel Butler and Simon Girty . The schooner
 Nancy also just arrived from Michillimackinac, with
 peltry — made her passage to this place in seventeen
 days — distance three hundred and ninety miles. 7th. First of the week. We held a meeting in
 the forenoon in the old sail loft: it was to good satis-
faction, being large and solid. In the afternoon we
 went about five miles to the river Rushe — held a
 meeting with the inhabitants there and several who
 went with us from the town. This also we thought
 was comfortable and edifying. 8th. The weather hot and sultry — a heavy thun-
der shower. We have no account from the commis-
sioners — hope they may come on with the Indian
 deputies, if any thing is likely to be done. This is
 truly a trying scene to us, to be kept in this expen-
sive place so long in suspense; yet hope it may not
 be altogether in vain. We think we have done the 
 best we could in our present circumstances. Various
 reports are daily coming in, with respect to the In-
dians' disposition. We much desire an opportunity
 with them in council, if it could be come at proper-
ly, whether the commissioners come or not. The
 opinion of many is, there will be no general treaty.
 We received a letter from colonel M'Kee in answer
 to one written him some time ago; — says he will at-
tend to our request, and give us every intelligence
 he apprehends necessary; — and yesterday, one from
 captain Hendricks , at the rapids of Miami, request-
ing some favours from us, — which were granted.
 And truly we have many requests, that in our pre-
sent circumstances we are not able to comply with
 to the full. Hendrick s' account is more favourable
 than some others we have had. He expresses a
 hope there will be a peace. The general cry among
 the gentlemen and more knowing inhabitants of this
 place is, for God's sake, gentlemen, don't venture
 yourselves to Sandusky. This we believe is from
 motives of entire friendship and good will to us,
 and makes it at times very trying. And though we
 have not felt any slavish fears — yet hope to move
 cautiously, as wisdom, which is profitable to direct,
 may point out the way. One of the Indians, a De-
laware, that brought captain Hendricks' letter, says
 the western Indians keep their runners constantly
 out to watch the motion of general Wayne's army,
 from whom they have some fearful apprehensions;
 which we hope are groundless. 9th. We had a visit from captain Blue Jacket , a
 principal warrior among the Shawnese. He was in
 command at the defeat of St. Clair's army. He was
 richly dressed. His appearance is lofty and mascu-
 line.He said he had heard of the Quakers — that
 they were a harmless people that did not fight; and
 was glad now to see us. We had also a visit from
 several others of the same tribe. One of a solid
 countenance said, he heartily desired we might
 succeed in the great work of peace; and appeared
 much pleased to see us. We have several capable
 interpreters with us; but our sentiments being peace-
ful, serious and religious, are so opposite to theirs,
 that when they do interpret, it is with such reluc-
tance as puts it out of our power to relieve our
 minds so fully as we could wish. This day received
 a letter from the Moravian Indians and their minis-
ter, expressing their grateful sense of Friends' kind-
ness to them. 10th. The sloop Detroit, bound to Mackinaw, ar-
rived from Fort Erie in eight days. We were in
 hopes of letters, but were disappointed. However
 we understand the commissioners, with a number of
 Indians, are coming in the Dunmore which was
 nearly ready to sail, and may be soon expected, if
 not met with by the Chipaway, and detained by the
 chiefs who were to have a conference with them
 previous to their coming forward to the treaty. 11th. Had the company of several Indians — one
 of whom, David Canada , speaks good English, and
 interprets well. His father was a white man. He
 has been in Europe — appears friendly to the Ame-
rican interest, and says he will go with us to the
 treaty. 12th. We all went over the river to our land-
lord's farm, where we dined on provision we took
 with us. Spent most of the day there and in visit-
ing some neighbours. Returned in the evening. The sloop Sagonay is just arrived from Fort Erie.
 The Dunmore was waiting for a wind, when the
 deputation of Indians arrived — and the commission-
ers returned to Navy Hall to have a conference.
 This is an additional disappointment, and further
 trial of our faith and patience. 13th. The weather fair and pleasant — the people
 very busy in hay-making, and some beginning their
 wheat harvest. In the afternoon the sloop Speed-
well arrived from Fort Erie, by which we had letters
 from our friends at home, and one from the commis-
sioners, informing of their return to Navy Hall; but
 that they expect to come forward in a few days. 14th. First of the week. For some days I have
 felt rather dull and heavy — my spirits low. I feel
 the importance of our embassy with much weight. —
 The dark conversation frequently heard respecting
 war, is truly distressing and discouraging. I am 
frequently led to recur back to the first principles
 from whence the concern took its rise; and have, as
 yet, no cause to doubt of its propriety, although
 many discouraging prospects are frequently thrown
 in our way. We are comfortably preserved in unity
 one with another in the main cause we are engaged
 in, hoping we shall not be shaken from the right
 ground by the enemies of peace, — of which there
 are many. This day we had another meeting in the usual
 place, which was large and solid. 15th. Had an interview with captain Elliot , who
 had just returned from the Rapids, where the Indians
 are collected; but nothing further has transpired.
 He appears somewhat reserved; and our anxious
 state of suspense still continues. We are apprehen-
 sive the Indian embassy to the commissioners may
 prevent the proposed treaty. We wrote a letter to 
colonel McKee , and an epistle to the Indians, to be
 forwarded the first opportunity. Here we observe a species of Indian slaves called
 Pawnees, or Punins, — who are captives taken by
 the Chipaways from the Suse, or Pawnee nations.
 It is sorrowful to think that a nation so famed for
 liberty, should hold them, and a number of the Afri-
can race, in a state of bondage during life. The go-
vernment here, we understand, has made some essay
 towards their enlargement, which, it is hoped, will,
 in time, amount to a total abolition. 16th. Had a solid opportunity with captain El-
liot, deputy agent for Indian affairs, and again ex-
pressed our anxious desires to him, that a solid peace
 might take place; we also queried if it would be
 proper for us, or any of our company, to visit the In-
dians in their present council at the Rapids, where
 he was now about to return. He told us, he thought
 in the present state of things, it would not be eligi-
ble to move that way. He gave us to understand,
 that the Indians were generally acquainted with our
 being here, and our views towards them; and hoped
 on the return of the Indian embassy, some way would
 open for our relief. For the present, we concluded
 to forward the letters to and the M'Kee Indians, by
 Elliot , and as our having a personal interview with
 the Indians appeared doubtful, we forwarded Friends'
 Address to them, to be read by M'Kee in case we
 should fail of an opportunity ourselves. 17th. The people are very busy in their harvest,
 having good crops: but in some places the grain is 
 injured by a kind of smut, supposed to be occasion-
ed by much wet and rapid growth. We have lately heard of the arrival of a number
 of Creeks and Cherokee Indians, in the neighbour
hood of the Indian council — we fear, with views not
 friendly to a peaceable accommodation of matters
 with the Western Indians — as we hear hostilities
 between them and the whites have been renewed to
 the southward. These accounts are alarming and
 discouraging. The commissioners are not yet come.
 We wait as patiently as we can, until we hear fur-
ther from them. 18th. This morning had an interview with cap-
tain Wellbank, who came with the detachment of
 Cherokee and Creek Indians from the southern ter-
ritory, he says, more than a thousand miles, and
 that they were ninety days on their journey. His
 principal business seemed to be with colonel Eng-
land , who gave immediate orders for the sloop Feli-
city to sail with him on board, to Fort Erie, on his
 way to governor Simcoe . We suppose they have
 some matters of importance, as colonel England
 a few days ago assured us the Felicity was detained
 on purpose to take us to Sandusky, or Fort Erie,
 as was most eligible, on the shortest notice, which
looked kind and friendly to our purpose. 19th. The weather fair and pleasant, and through
 Divine favour, we are all in health ; but are still in
 great suspense, with respect to the event of this in-
tended treaty, which every day looks more and
 more discouraging. Yet we think we have been in
 the line of our duty in coming forward and labour-
ing thus far; and hope our being here may be of
 some use on divers accounts. Some of our compa-
 ny walked yesterday to the spring about three miles
 below the town, where they had a satisfactory op-
portunity with some Oneida Indians that were en-
camped there. They seem jointly concerned with
 us for the accomplishment of peace. This day we
 were all together in the arbour in the colonel's gar-
den, looking over some writings on Indian affairs.
 To this place we frequently resort, as it is retired
 and pleasant — being indulged with this privilege by
 invitation from the colonel soon after our arrival
 here. 20th. The harbour is now clear of shipping. —
 We are anxiously waiting the arrival of the Dun-
more, by which we expect the commissioners, or to
 hear from them, hoping our detention here will be
 shortly closed by our going on to Sandusky, or re-
turning to Fort Erie on our way home: till which
 we desire humbly to submit to the wise Disposer of
 events. 21st. First of the week. We held a meeting in
 the sail loft at the tenth hour, which was a favour-
ed time, it being large and solid. Soon after our re-
turn, we heard of the arrival of the Dunmore at the
 mouth of the river, by a passenger who came in her,
 and that the commissioners are on board, expecting
 to go forward soon to Sandusky. In the afternoon
 we had another comfortable meeting, crowned as
 we thought, with the Master's good presence. And
 now it looks likely to be a parting one, — the peo-
ple behaved with remarkable quietness — manifest-
ing much respect to us. I believe there are a few
 tender-hearted ones in this place that will remember
 us, and I hope we shall not forget them; — though it
 is sorrowful to behold the power and influence that 
 satan has too generally amongst the inhabitants of
 these parts. Captain Gibbons , who came passenger
 in the Dunmore, gave us the above intelligence re-
specting the commissioners, and further says, the
 Indian deputies and they held a very friendly con-
ference together at Navy Hall, and things appeared
 in a favourable way respecting the treaty. This ac-
count is more pleasant than any we have had for
 many days past. In this fluctuating state of things
 we find great need to keep on the right bottom, so
 that we may not be shaken from that foundation,
 and a humble confidence in the Divine power, which
I trust we felt in our embarkation. 22d. John Parrish , John Elliott , and myself, paid
 a visit to the Roman Catholic priest, who appeared
 to take it kind. We also had a short interview with
 the commandant, who has manifested much respect
 to us during our long stay here, and now told us,
 that nothing should be wanting that lay in his power
 to make our way easy. 23d and 24th. We now began to prepare for leav-
ing Detroit. The commandant visited us at our quar-
ters, and informed us he proposed going with us in
 the Dunmore to see the commissioners. It seemed
 very pleasant to find that respect which it is hoped
 may tend to strengthen the unity between them. —
 We should have been glad to see the commissioners
 here, but understanding neither they nor any others
 from a foreign state under military characters, are
 admitted within the limits of this garrison, which
 includes the town that consists of about one hun-
dred houses; under which consideration we think it
 cause of thankfulness for the indulgence, remarkable
 attention, and kind treatment we have met with 
 during our six weeks stay in this place. This even-
ing, paid a short visit at commissary Rinold 's, who,
 with his wife and sensible daughter, appear to have
 as much solidity, uprightness, and vital religion, as
 any in the place. There are a few others we highly
 esteem, and towards whom we now feel a near affec-
tion on taking our solemn farewell. 25th. Took leave of most of our acquaintances in
 town and went on board the Dunmore, in which
 were colonel England and several other officers; fell
 down to the mouth of the river, about eighteen
 miles, and landed at captain Elliot 's, whose house
 the commissioners had taken, being large and con-
venient for their purpose. We were truly glad to
 see them, and they us. Here the vessel is ordered
 to lay until we are ready to go forward to Sandus-
ky, which depends on the time the Indians say they
 are ready. It was pleasant to behold the friend-
ship apparent between the colonel with the other
 British officers, and our commissioners. This place
 is very agreeable; there being a large farm, with
 fields well stored with grain, standing in shock —
supposed to be about one thousand bushels; a large
 new barn eighty feet long and about thirty-six
wide; round the house a beautiful green, on which
 we encamped with fourteen tents, large and small,
 containing our little company and the commission-
ers' train, with some British officers who designed
 to go with us to the grand treaty. The commis-
sioners gave us the substance of what passed be-
tween them and the Indian deputies at Niagara: all
 which appeared encouraging, and favourable towards
 an accommodation. We dined and supped all toge-
ther, and slept quiet and well in our tents. 26th. Spent the day very agreeably together,
 having one general table. At night we had a great
 rain and heavy thunder; our tents not as well forti-
fied as might have been. Towards day some of us
 got very wet by the water coming in; but through
 Divine favour we were preserved. 27th. A fine morning. Having an opportunity to
 go to Detroit in a small boat with Gotlieb Sensiman ,
 a Moravian minister from Latrench river, and three
 Indians of their family, we embraced it. William
 Savery and myself took our passage in order to do
 some business for the commissioners, and a little for
 ourselves. The wind was ahead and we had to row
 all the way, Went to our old quarters. 28th. First of the week. I felt weary with yester-
day's hard rowing, and almost ready to give out the
 prospect of a meeting. But towards evening, at
 about an hour's notice, we met at the old sail loft
 with many of the inhabitants, who appeared glad of
 the opportunity, and it was satisfactory to ourselves. 29th. The colonel's boat going down the river to
 our camp, with captains Freeman and Broadhead ,
 we were invited to return with them; but our busi-
ness not being completed, I concluded to stay, and
 take my passage in the schooner Nancy, bound to
 Fort Erie, and William Savery went with the offi-
cers. 30th. I went on board the schooner, and near
 night landed at our camp, where I was informed a
 deputation of Indians from the Rapids had been here,
 and held a conference with the commissioners. They
 appeared uneasy with what had passed at Niagara,
 asserting that nothing short of Ohio river being the
 line, would satisfy them; they requested the com-
missioners’ answer to-morrow, on that head, and re-
tired over the river. This unexpected change look-
ed again discouraging; believing our worthy com-
missioners had nothing but upright views in their
 proceedings, consistent with the trust reposed in them
 by the government of the United States. Though
 what their views are, is yet unknown to us; but we
 hope, and expect, they will be generous and liberal,
 evincing to the world that the present proceedings
 and designs of the United States are founded on
 reason, equity, and justice. And so far as this may
 be the case, we hope the Lord may be on our side,
 in this our trying situation. 31st. In the afternoon the Indians came over, and
 being seated on the beautiful green in the shade of
 some trees, the commissioners came forth with their
 speech in writing, which was interpreted by Tho-
mas Jones, from the Genesee, in the Seneca lan-
guage. In it was contained many candid and gen-
erous proposals; but not coming up so fully to their
 demands as they seemed to wish, they declined to
 make any reply at present. But having the paper
 given to them, said they would consider it mature-
ly, and return an answer tomorrow. On which the
 council broke up, and the Indians returned again to
 Whitewood Island, opposite to our camp. Among
 these were the chiefs often different nations, who ap-
peared in council solid and sober. 8th mo. 1st. The Indian deputies returned in the
 morning early, and being seated, the Wyandot chief
 called Carry-all-about , whose name signifies King of
 all the western nations up the Lakes, — made a short
 speech, importing, That many treaties had been
 held at different places from time to time, wherein 
 you say lands have been purchased; but would ac-
knowledge no legal and permanent conveyance
 since the treaty at Fort Stanwix, twenty-five years
 ago. So that the lands on this side the Ohio are
 ours, and the lands on the other side are yours. — 
 And you may go home and tell Washington what
 we say. We understand all you said to us very
 well, and we expect you understand us. Simon
 Girty was their interpreter. After rising up and
 stepping off a few yards, they found a mistake in
 expression, and recalled their words, desiring the
 commissioners would stay where they are, till they
 could go to the council and return with an answer,
 which, if favoured with wind and weather, may be
 accomplished in about five days. We had some de-
sire to go with them to the Rapids, as captain El-
liot, captain Thomas M’Kee , and others were go-
ing to the council. But this was not approbated;
 and as our letters sent by captain Elliot had not
 been forwarded by him on account of his meeting
 the commissioners here, who thought proper to de-
tain them, concluding we should have an opportu-
nity shortly to see them ourselves, — after opening
 and reading them, and adding a short postscript, we
 were encouraged to send them forward, though at a
 late stage. 2d. Towards evening, several of us in company
 with our good old general, took a walk up the river
 about a mile, and drank tea at James Colwell ’s. The
 result of this great business is cause of much close
 exercise at times — our minds being made sensible
 that nothing but supernatural wisdom will do for us
 to lean to. 3d. The sloop Detroit came to, here, on her way 
 to Fort Erie, from Michillimackinac, loaded with
 peltry, having on board three hundred and thirty-
 three packs, the greatest part supposed to be worth
 twenty guineas each. So great is the fur trade in
 this country, that it is almost beyond description.
 In the afternoon, John Elliott and myself took a
 walk to Simon Girty 's, and from thence about half
 a mile further down the lake, where we saw some
 plain traces of one of the very old forts, among the
 many that are in divers parts of this country, of
 which the present Indians can give no account from
 tradition or otherwise. 4th. First of the week. We held a small meet-
ing at Simon Girty 's, we hope to profit: — himself
 gone to the Indian council with the deputies that
 were here from the Rapids. William Savery and
 myself being comrades in a small tent, our bedding
 got a good deal wet with the great rain that fell to-
day, and having no opportunity for drying, we slept
 on them as they were. In the morning, felt well,
 which is an additional cause of thankfulness for the
 many favours we have received. 5th. We have frequent visits from the town, —
 and this day came James Abbot , William Bow , and
 — Sportsman, in a small sail boat. Our friend
 John Parrish , paid a visit to the Wyandot Indian
 town about four miles from our camp. This night
 was the most general complaint of the musketoes I
 have yet heard since our encamping here. Most of
 us got little sleep either in the house, tents, or on
 ship board. Towards day the weather grew colder
 — wind N. W. which caused an increase of muske-
toes in our tents. 6th. One of the servants of captain Elliot , called 
 Toby , a Pawnee slave, who has lain near a year in
 a consumption, died about two o'clock this afternoon. I was with him for about an hour before he depart-
ed, and speaking with him about fifteen minutes be-
fore he breathed his last, found he was sensible of
 death being upon him. He said he understood all
 I said to him, and was glad he was noticed in his
 last moments. I think I never saw before so hasty
 a burial. His coffin was made immediately, and his
 interment took place about sunset, in a grave near-
by on the bank of the river, attended by about twen-
ty people, whites, blacks, and Indians. This was
 the end of poor Toby . 7th. I was at captain William Colwell 's, and to-
wards evening walked to Simon Girty 's. At night
 the wind came strong from the south, with much
 rain.William and I got a little wet again, but are
 preserved in health. 8th. Two Indians came from the Rapids, by whom
 we received letters from captain Hendricks , a chief
 of the Five Nations, announcing his opinion there
 will be peace. This was pleasant, indeed, and we
 sat up this evening, conversing with the commis-
sioners till past eleven o'clock. Slept well, being
 clear of musketoes. 9th. William Savery and myself dined on board
the ship that rides nearly opposite our camp. This
 evening came in several more Indians from the Ra-
pids, whose reports agree in substance with captain
 Hendricks' letters. They were treated with a glass
 a piece, and encamped near by; but a canoe coming
 from Detroit with rum, they were made very noisy.
 This, with the musketoes, caused little sleep. 10th. Great looking out for the boat's return from
 the council, for which we are very anxious. The
 season advancing, and the great distance we are
 from home, together with the continued uncertainty
 of succeeding, according to our wishes, in the great
 business we are engaged in, accompanied with other
 unpleasant circumstances, give us at times some very
 disagreeable sensations. Yet on the whole, we are
 preserved in a good degree of patience, still believing
 our coming out was right, be the event as it may. 11th. First of the week. No arrival from the Ra-
pids to alleviate our strong desires and anxiety to see
 the Indians. With some difficulty we got to Grose
 Isle, where we held a meeting with some of its in-
habitants and divers from the main, to a good de-
gree of satisfaction. This morning, Jasper Parrish ,
 who had been express to Philadelphia, the second
 time, arrived in the ship Ottoway, from Fort Erie,
 by whom we received many letters from home. 12th. Our anxiety and great suspense still con-
tinue. William Savery and Jasper Parrish both
 poorly. At night our rest was much disturbed by
 the musketoes. We have frequent visits from small
 parties of Indians, who sometimes find means to get
 too much rum, and are then troublesome; otherwise
 they are quiet and civil. Fresh provisions are plen-
ty here; but rate very high. Sheep from four to
 six dollars, not large. 13th. No remarkable occurrence. We are still
 looking earnestly for the boats from the great In-
dian council. 14th. This day we had the company of captain
 Wellbank, who returned some days ago from Nia-
gara . He gave the commissioners much the same 
 account we received from him at Detroitthe 18th
 ultimo. 15th. Felt dull and heavy in body and mind --
We have a Wyandot Indian, who stays much with
 us. He often goes out to hunt, and brings in plenty
 of ducks, &c. for which he gets well paid. He ap-
pears to be a sensible man, speaks many languages
 in the Indian tongue and some English. Two men
 came from the other side of the river, and informed
 the boats were coming from the council to invite us 
to the treaty. 16th. In the afternoon came two young Indian
 men, (Wyandots) they looked wild and afraid; one
 of them was introduced to general Lincoln , and
 handed him a message in writing, from the great
 council, informing, that the several treaties at Fort
 M'Intosh, Miami, Muskingum, &c, where lands
 had been ceded by two or three nations only, were
 not valid, as they had no right to cede lands. And
 as for the large sums of money proposed to be given
 for their country, they did not want it, and a great
 many of them did not know the use of it: therefore
 desired it might be applied with the proposed sala-
ry, to the indemnification of the settlers north of
 the Ohio. And as they supposed they were mostly
 poor people, or they would not have settled on dis-
puted lands, they now proposed that government 
 should give the money to them. It would be a suf-
ficient compensation to those settlers, and might in-
duce them to move quietly somewhere else, out of
 the Indian country — and make the Ohio the bounda-
ry: for it was their land. And signified, as the
 land to the westward was filled up, they had no-
where to repair to, and were now determined to lay 
 their bones in that country. As to the concessions
 the commissioners proposed making, by giving mo-
ney, they did not want it; and running a new line
 was but giving them a part of their own land. And
 as to disclaiming the right to all their country by
 virtue of the peace made with the king, their father,
 they knew they never were conquered, and the pre-
emption right agreed on by the British and United
 States, concerning the purchasing of their country,
 could not be binding on them; for they supposed
 they had a right to sell their lands to whom they
 pleased. Upon the whole, it was received as a very
 contemptible speech, by our commissioners — which
 soon appeared to be the case, as the baggage was
 ordered on board, and caused an alarm in our camp. Some for safety proposed to lodge on board the ship,
 and divers tents were struck. Some went on board,
 and others took to the house for safety. This pros-
pect, all on a sudden, looked gloomy, and Friends
 got together to feel if any thing further opened for
 us to do. We felt much shut up; — and as we had 
 never been called into council with the commission-
ers, nor had any public conference with the Indians,
 we were obliged to bear our own burthens, and sub-
mit the awful subject to the interposition of the Di-
vine hand, and turn our faces homeward to our dear
 friends and connections, in hopes of reaching our
 Yearly Meeting. This evening, two runners who were despatched
 three days ago, returned with a verbal message from
 the Five Nations, who expected us to come for-
ward, and were moving six miles down the river to
 meet us. They having all along appeared very
 friendly to the United States, this appeared an art-
 ful manoeuvre, on one side or the other. It was
 somewhat extraordinary to hear general Lincoln ex-
press, that they had received just such an answer as
 he could have wished. What his meaning was, is
 unknown. Friends slept in their tents as heretofore,
 I believe with little fear. 17th. We were hurried on board soon after break-
fast, with the remainder of "our baggage. Two run-
ners were dispatched by the commissioners to the
 Six Nations, the object unknown to us. About ele-
ven o'clock, we were all on board, and stood down
 the river into the lake. My mind felt sorrowful and
 very heavy, reflecting on the important subject of
 our journey; but I could see nothing material omit-
ted on our part, to give uneasiness: so I endeavoured
 to rest quiet, leaving the event to Him who judgeth
 righteously. In this part of the world, but little mo-
rality, law, or religion, appears to govern the peo-
ple, though the climate is blessed with health and
 there is plenty of the good things of this life; no-
thing being wanting but industry and thankful
 hearts. 18th. First of the week. We came to anchor
 among a cluster of islands in the west end of the
 lake; of which there is said to be about thirty, great
 and small. Some of them produce abundance of red
 cedar, much used in ship building — there are also
 raccoons and many other wild animals on them. We
 stood out into the open lake with pleasant weather.
 Had a season of solid retirement in the cabin, with 
 a few of our fellow passengers, to a good degree of
satisfaction and comfort; though held in much con-
tempt by others, who supposed themselves wise and 
 good enough already. 19th. Light head wind. We have thirty-one pas-
sengers on board, besides the ship's crew and ma-
rines. Provisions plenty — poultry, sheep, hogs —
 and two bears belonging to captain Bunbury . 19th. We passed the mouth of Cayahoga river,
 and in sight of the Looming-hills on the south shore,
 land claimed and held by the Delaware Indians. —
The light and trivial conversation on board, accom-
panied with such a degree of profanity in language
 and behavior one to another, at times, was truly
 distressing, though otherwise we were as comforta-
bly accommodated as the nature of our situation 
 would admit. 22d. We anchored at Fort Erie. — 23d. Rainy,
 no goods or baggage could be landed, as the lake
 was rough, which caused a great surf. 24th. Morn-
ing fair and calm — a great stir, hoisting out casks,
 trunks, &c. The commissioners preparing to set
 forward, some by water, others by land. William
 Savery and William Hartshorne , are to go with ge-
neral Lincoln, by Ontario.Jacob Lindley is pro-
vided with a horse by the commissioners, and goes
 by land; so that we are all busily engaged fixing our
 baggage each in his own way, clearing off all ex-
penses for passage, &c. And truly we may say, by
 this time, we became pretty much stript of the con-
tents of our purses, and a great deal of our stock of
 provisions, &c. John Elliott and John Parrish went
 on shore in the afternoon, to get to some Friend's 
 house. Jacob Lindley and myself went in the even-
ing to the house of Benjamin Willson , who had been
 on board with us all the afternoon. I felt myself in
 some measure, like one let out of prison. Here we
 were kindly treated and lodged; proposing to visit a 
 number of Friends and friendly people, in and about
 this neighborhood, before we set out for home;
 which seemed annexed to my concern in coming
 forth to this country, to attend the proposed treaty
 with the Indians. 25th. First of the week. We held a public meet-
ing, and visited a few families — towards evening,
 got to Asa Schooley's , where John Parrish came to
 us. Here we lodged. 26th. John Elliott came to us this morning — so
 that we are now all together again. We went to John
 Herrit's, son-in-law to Asa Schooley , had a sitting
 there and returned to Asa 's — there had a solid op-
portunity with his family and the family of John
 Cutler, together; — after which, went to Daniel
 Pound 's and lodged. 27th. We held a public meeting at Joseph Ha-
ven's, which was large and favoured; at the close,
 we had a select opportunity with such as profess
 with Friends, a number of them being members, to
 whom some interesting matters of advice were com-
municated. Upon the whole, we thought it a very
 solid and profitable opportunity, many hearts being
tendered; for whom, in their lonely situation, we
 were brought into near sympathy. We parted from
 them in much love. John Parrish and myself went
 to Ezekiel Dennis 's, up the side of Lake Erie about
 six miles, to point Ebino, where we were kind-
ly entertained and lodged. I think when the meet-
ing was select as above mentioned, there was in the
 whole, young and old, about forty — many decent
 looking young people, with innocent countenances,
 were present; on account of whom I felt much con-
cern for their religious and school education. 28th. Set out and rode up the beautiful beach on
 the lake shore, about ten miles, to what is called the
 Sugar Loaf, a point of land extending out in the
 lake, with a remarkable round hill, at a distance re-
sembling a sugar loaf. Here we visited seven fami-
lies, and returned in the evening to our friend Asa
 Schooley's. 29th. With divers other Friends, we went about
 twelve miles to esquire Powell 's, where we had a
 large public meeting of Friends and others, to much
satisfaction to ourselves, and I believe it was so to the
 auditory. They behaved quiet, and with becoming
 decency. After which many Friends took leave of
 us in much love and tenderness, and departed to
 their several homes. We dined with the squire, be-
ing freely and liberally entertained. Afterwards I
 rode about four miles to the fort, and went on board
 the Dunmore on a small errand, with our friend Wil-
liam Lundy, who having heard of our being here,
 came about twenty miles to see us, and was at the
 meeting to-day. In the evening went to our friend
 Benjamin Willson 's — leaving the other Friends at
 Powell's. John Elliott had been very poorly with
 the ague and fever — am fearful he will hardly be
 able to ride very soon, which is now a great trial to
 us, being very desirous to move towards home -- Having had the two public meetings above mention-
ed, and visited most of the families and Friends in
 this country, to wit, Asa Schooley ,Joseph Havens ,
 Obadiah Dennis , Abraham Webster , John Cutler ,
 John Hill , Benjamin Hill , Jeremiah Moore , (Abra-
ham Laing, and Benjamin Canby , single men) John
 Taylor, Joshua Gillam , Joseph Marsh , Adam Bur-
well, Daniel Pound , William Lundy , Thomas Rice , 
 James Crawford , Enoch Scrigley , Samuel Taylor ,
 Ezekiel Dennis , and several others. 30th. We now began to prepare to leave this part
 of the country. This morning the other Friends
 came to me at Benjamin Willson 's. Jasper Parrish 
 we hear is very poorly at the landing, not able to
 return. We felt loth to leave him, but understand-
ing general Chapin , with whom he has his home, is
 expected to be here in about a week, we were the
 more easy to leave him. 31st. John Elliott now bravely, though weak,
 seems very willing to move forward. We waited
 this morning for Abraham Laing , a young man who
 is going to the States, and is very desirous of our
 company. Then went to Powell 's, and thence to
 Windecker 's, the ferryman, where Abraham Laing 
 came to us — we crossed over and went three miles
 to Cornelius Winney 's, at Buffalo creek. Here we
 stayed, as there is no house between this and the
 Genesee, which is called seventy-five miles. 9th mo. 1st. First-day. Set out early for Gene-
see — rode about forty miles; night came on, and we
 halted by the side of a small brook, and began to
 make preparation for a shelter, but a cloud came on
 with heavy thunder and rain. We made out to get
 a fire kindled, which was a comfort to us; but we
 got very wet. The wind being high, several trees
 fell near us, which was somewhat alarming. The
 gust held about two hours, and then cleared up with
 bright starlight the remainder of the night. We all
 lay before the fire, in the best manner we could, in
our wet situation, got some sleep, but were some
what afflicted with the musketoes. On the whole,
 we thought ourselves much favoured. 2d. We were up early, looked out for our horses,
 put on our kettle, and made a good dish of choco-
late, wherein our friend John Parrish , was princi-
pal director — then set out and rode about thirty-five
 miles to the Genesee river, which we crossed by
 fording, and put up at John Gilbert Berry 's, where
 we were comfortably entertained. 3d. After writing letters to general Chapin at
 Canandaigua, captain Bunbury at Niagara, and cap-
tain Hendricks,
 a chief among the Five Nations, we
 rode sixteen miles to James Miller 's, superintendent
 of Williamsburgh farm, where we put up for the
 night, there being no place for lodging short of for-
ty miles further. Among the many Indians resort-
ing about Berry 's, we saw a woman, said to be a
 hundred years old. In conversation with her, and
 admiring her grey hair, she assigned as a reason for
 her long life, that she was always kind and good,
 and against all quarrels; therefore God had spared
 her to see the sun a long time; pointing up to it. 4th. This morning we took a wrong road and
 had to return, by which we lost about ten miles, so
 that we were not able to reach Bath, and lodged at
 the same old Indian cabin we were at in going up
 in the spring, eleven miles short of the place we
 aimed at. We struck up a fire and slept pretty com-
fortably. 5th. We rode to Bath, and late in the evening got
 to colonel Lindley 's, where we put up, having rode
about forty miles. 6th. We were up early, proposing to reach the
 Block-house, distant about forty miles, but having
 our young friend Abraham Laing> in company, with
 a poor little horse that tired on the way, our pro-
 gress was retarded, so that we were benighted in
 very dark thick woods, and were obliged to alight.
 There, tying up our horses to the trees, with much
 difficulty we kindled a fire, and lay on the ground,
 which, with our clothes, were wet with rain. We
 kept up our fire, got a little sleep, wishing for day,
 and were glad when it appeared. We left Abraham 
 Laing> with his tired horse about eight miles back,
 where there is a small cabin in the woods. 7th. Mounted our horses before sun-rise, and
 rode two miles to the Block-house, where we took
 breakfast, and gave our horses as much oats as we
 thought would be useful. Being thus refreshed, we
 set out, leaving Abraham Laing to come on as well
 as he could, in hopes that he may overtake us at
 Muncy. We rode seventeen miles to James Kyle 's,
 and dined — thence fourteen miles to our friend
 Samuel Harris 's, at Loyalsock, where John Parrish 
 and myself lodged, leaving Jacob Lindley and John
 Elliott five miles hack to get their horses shod. —
 Here we heard of great sickness in Philadelphia. 8th. First of the week. After breakfast, Jacob
 Lindley and John Elliott came up, and we went to
 Muncy meeting. Here we met with a number of
 our dear friends. This seemed very pleasant, and
 we had a solid, favoured time together. After which
 we went to our friend Samuel Wallace 's and dined,
 then disposed of ourselves in several places to lodge.
 I went to Henry Parker 's. We all felt a little of
 the effects , of lying in the damp woods in our wet
 clothes, and hard travelling for two days past, with
 rough roads, and crossing many creeks; one called
 Trout run, we crossed thirty times, and Lycoming
 creek seven times — with several large mountains, 
 one of which was a part of the Alleghany. The
 sickness in Philadelphia confirmed in every place. 9th. Not feeling quite clear of this neighbour-
hood, we held another meeting at Muncy meeting
 house, which was larger than yesterday, and much
 favoured. After dinner, went back six miles to Sa-
muel Harris's, over the very large and rapid creek
 called Loyalsock. Here we had a large and satisfac-
tory meeting. Most of our company returned, but I
 stayed here. 10th. Our friend S. H., an ancient man, has lain
 poorly for some time, and not likely to continue
 long. He seems quiet and calm, and told me this
 morning, he felt bravely refreshed, and much satis-
fied with the meeting, and the company of his friends.
 I took a solemn leave of him and the family, and pro-
ceeded to Wallace 's. We then all set out together,
 and rode to William Ellis 's, where we settled the
 running accounts we had among ourselves. Our
 friend Jacob Lindley concluded here to leave us,
 and proceed home by way of Harrisburgh. We
 then went on, having Joseph Carpenter for a guide,
 eighteen miles toward Catawissa, and put up at our
 friend John Eves 's, at Fishing creek, where we were
 kindly entertained. 11th. Here we had a meeting with a few Friends
 and divers of their neighbours, in a school house, to
 a good degree of satisfaction and comfort. Set out
 in company with Isaac James , brother to John , in
 Philadelphia, and rode about twelve miles to Catta-
wissa, crossing the north-east branch of the Susque-
hanna, and put up at our friend John Lloyd 's. Here
 is a small town of about thirty buildings. I lodged
 at James Watson 's, John Parrish at John Lloyd 's, 
 poorly, John Elliott stopped about eight miles short
 of this, at John Willson 's. 12th. John Elliott came to us this morning. On
 his way he called to see an ancient Friend, now in
 the ninety-seventh year of her age. We had no
 public meeting here, but visited most of the families
 of Friends in town, wherein our friend John Par-
rish had good service, and was much favoured. In
 the afternoon we rode about nine miles to Roaring
 creek . This part of the country is hilly and moun-
tainous, — the valleys interspersed with good farms.
 Many Friends are settled hereabouts. Lodged at
 Moses Starr 's. 13th. Rode twenty-six miles to Cold Run, and
 put up at Samuel Webb 's, having crossed the Little
 Mountain, Mahony ,Broad, Locust, and Tuscarora
 mountains. Great part of the way very rough and
 stony. 14th. Set out and rode seven miles to Richard
 Stephens's — thence to Harkerstown. We here met
 with our friend Mordecai Lee , who had heard of
 our coming, and came to meet us. We went home
 with him. 15th. First of the week. Joseph Wright , living
 in one part of the house with his family, has lately
 been afflicted with the bloody flux, by which he had
 lost three children. Divers Friends came here to
 see us, viz. John Starr , Thomas Wright , Levi Pil-
kington, &c. We all attended their sa meeting at Mai-
den creek — and after dinner proceeded nine miles to
 Reading, where we put up at Samuel Jackson 's. —
 The sickness, and distress in consequence thereof,
 we still hear confirmed, and much talked of, as still
 raging to a great degree in Philadelphia — which, I 
 expect will be a trying circumstance to many friends
 in the country, in getting to our ensuing Yearly
 Meeting. May the good hand be near to help us. 18th. Samuel Wallace , from Muncy, called to see
 us. He left the city yesterday, and confirms the
 accounts of the sickness and mortality to be quite
 equal to what we have heard — and that the principal
 nurses for the sick, and buriers of the dead, are the
 blacks, of whom it is said, very few or none have
 yet taken the disorder. After breakfast we set out
 and rode twenty-three miles to Joseph Potts 's, 
where we lodged. Here we again heard much of
 the distressed situation of Philadelphia. Our friend
 John Elliott left John Parrish and myself here, pro-
posing to ride into town this evening to his family. 19th. I have been these two days past, poorly
 with a cold, and very hoarse; but through favour, this
 morning, feel some better. John Parrish was taken
 in a carriage by a friend, proposing to go to Darby,
 where he understands his wife was gone, intending
 to go by John Field 's, who with many others are
 out of town. At the same time I set out with my
 friend Joseph Potts , and rode nine miles to German-
town. Called at Henry Drinker 's, who with his
 family were here. From thence went with Henry 
 to John Pemberton 's, who was here also with his 
family. Having heard that Beverly Randolph was
 at his cousin Edmund Randolph 's, the attorney ge-
neral of the United States, about three miles from
 this, and being desirous to see him, towards even-
ing, John Pemberton , Henry Drinker and myself
 went there in John 's carriage. We were glad to see
 each other again, and after spending about an hour 
and a half together in free conversation, returned to 
 Germantown, where I lodged at my friend John
 Johnson's. 20th. The weather dry and warm — thought to be
 rather unfavorable to the sick in the city, where
 deaths and burials are frequent through the day. —
 Here I met with my friend Sarah Lundy , who is
 on her way to the Yearly Meeting, and a proposed
 visit to the Southern States. Also, again met with
 my dear friend, William Savery , who came in last
 evening, his wife being here, and having taken
 lodgings at Caspar Haines 's. We were all together
 at their preparative meeting, where divers weighty
 testimonies were delivered by Sarah Lundy and
 others; and solemn supplication by William Savery .
 Wm. Hartshorne returned home from New York, 
well. 21st. This being the day for opening our select 
Yearly Meeting, it was exceedingly trying to many
 Friends, on account of the prevailing and mortal
 disorder raging in the city, where it is said from a 
hundred to a hundred and fifty of a day, have been
 taken to their graves. I was much exercised in
 mind on that account, being yet poorly with my
 cold, which 1 now apprehend to be what is common-
ly called the influenza; — however, on the whole, I
 thought I felt most easy to go forward, and rode
 into Philadelphia, attended the meeting at Fourth
 street, which was a solid, favoured time, though 
very small. There were some Friends from every
 Quarter, though many of the representatives were
 absent. I think from one meeting there was but
 one answered. The number on the women's side
 of the house, in the whole, twenty-four. I dined at
 Thomas Wistar 's, and towards evening returned to 
 Germantown, feeling myself very poorly with great
 debility. While in the city, I had occasion to pass
 by Friends' burial ground, the Potter's field-, and
 several others. The prospect was awful and alarm-
ing, to behold the many new graves, and others dig-
ging, with the hearses standing, and some coming
 and going — most of which were attended by the
 black people, whom it is said the disorder has not 
reached. This is a token of mercy, mixed with
 judgment, both to them and the whites, they being
 the principal nurses and carriers of the dead. I am
 hardly able to describe my feelings on the present
 occasion, believing it to be all in wisdom, and hoping
 it may have a tendency to bring the lofty from their
 seats, and beget greater humility than has of latter
 time appeared in that highly favoured city. 22nd. First of the week. The weather much the
 same as many days past. I felt very weak and poor-
ly; did not go out to meeting, but kept in my quar-
ters, where I was very kindly and tenderly treated,
 wanting for nothing the house could afford to make
 me comfortable. John Johnson and his wife Rachel,
 appear to be tender-hearted, sympathizing friends,
 blessed with a plenty of the good things of this life,
 and an open disposition to communicate freely to
 those that are in need. May the Lord reward them,
 as good stewards of the manifold favours received. 23rd. This day our general Yearly Meeting be-
gins, at ten o'clock in the morning. I much desired
 to be there; but remaining poorly, concluded to lay
 by another day for rest. I think I now feel the ef-
fects of hard riding through the wilderness, and ly-
ing on the damp ground; being stiffened, with sore-
ness in my bones. John Elliott , I hear, has been 
 poorly since his arrival in town. Neither he nor
 John Parrish was at meeting on seventh-day. Jacob
 Lindley, William Savery and myself were there,
 and glad to see each other again in that place; and
 many friends expressed their gladness at our safe
 return. 24th. The weather dry and warm, the roads very
 dusty. This morning felt better. Leaving my horse
 here, I rode into town with my friend John John-
son, in a chair -- attended two sittings of our Yearly
 Meeting, which was much smaller than usual. Our
 friend Nicholas Wain , was again chosen clerk for
 the present year; and the business went on in much 
brotherly love and concord — a good degree of so-
lemnity and weight attending. I lodged at Thomas
 Hough>'s. 25th. The weather much the same. I continue
 tolerable well in health; but weak and some cough.
 Attended the meeting as yesterday. Dined at N.
 Wain's, and lodged at John James 's. 26th, and fifth of the week. The meeting assem-
bledagain at nine o'clock, and the business conclu-
ded before twelve, in solemn quiet, and, I believe,
 to the satisfaction of all present. After which, I 
dined with my friend David Bacon , and returned to 
Germantown with my kind friend, John Johnson ,
 who had also attended all the sittings of this Yearly
 Meeting. The sickness in town continues as here-
tofore. Divers friends in the city are paying con-
stant attention to the sick — providing necessaries,
 nurses, coffins, and carriers of the dead. At which
 I felt glad, and hope they will be rewarded for their
 labours in so great and charitable a work. 