 1809 9 mo & 2 of the week In Compliance with an appointment of the Yearly Meeting cont. having the care of Indian affairs I left Burlington this
afternoon to pay a visit to the settlements of Friends among the natives called Tunassassa and Cattensgas. Lodgd at Hannah Yarnalls & altho both
herself & James were from home the Evening was passd very pleasantly with the younger John the Family who entertained me with true Hospitality. My
Mind has for some Days past under considerable weight in the near approach of our visitation in this Important Embassy & this Day our bidding my
Friends farewell they were brought very near to me and a precious  Evidence accompanied that we loved one another--a recollection whereof I trust
will be as seals to be recived to with encouragement  at a future seasons - Geo Dillwyn told me that when our Committee were all got together I
might deliver them his love & say that his Heart was with the willing in Israel & last eveng in a Family sitting with in he had something very
comfortable they shall not go forth in haste, nor go by Flight, but the Lord shall be upon the Head of them, and the God of Israel shall be their
Reward in this encouraging passage respecting the Chosen People he said had been brot afresh to his remembrance & he applied it to our present
expected undertaking is Happy for us will it be if we are so attentive to Israels Shepherd as to know Him to be our Leader - and our Keeper. 5th 3d
Day Morng John Brown another of our Comt met me here after Breakfast with his son Moses who desired to accompany  us with a View to take a look at
new Lands--we left here about 10 oclock stopd a little while at Geo William's abington (about 10 Miles) where we met with Thomas Wistar & Jno &
Chas Shoemaker who a hearty fellow Labouring in the work wishd to bid us farewell & good speed on our intended journey - leavg here we reachd Saml
Lindzley  & near Plymouth meeting House (ab. 10 miles ) & Dind on a Dish of Coffee at 3 oCloc-- here we were joind by Tho Stewardson--a Third
member of our Com. & after Din. proceeded via Norris Town (the Capital of Montgom. County)--& crosing Perkiomining at Vanderslices had got to John
Jacob's about sun set--our ride was very pleasant being on on the Banks of the Schoolkill which sometimes opend to our View to the southward &
the prospects of the opposite Hills & intervening Vales were very agreeable, more exp  especially to a young Traveller unaccustomed to scenery so
extensive & Diversified--a kink reception & a good supper were enjoyed at the place I believe by us all & on my part I can say were crownd with a
peaceful Mind. Jn. Jacobs is about 48 years of age--has been a Down many years--is a very agreeable sensible Friend but in declining Health. this
is about 12 Miles from Providence Meeting House Day the 6. All Well this morng- after Breakfast--left Jn Jacobs House & himself accompanying us ab.
8 miles out our Way. We forded the schuylkell & taking the Reading Road crossg French Creek & fording Schuylkill again, reachd Potts Town (13
miles) where we fed at Shiveleys Tavern- then crossing the Monnatawny Toll Bridge & continuing on the Reading Road & up the schuylkill about 8
miles--in view of & riding among the Monnatony  Mountainsy reachd Benjamin Wrights about 1/2 part One with a good appatite for Dinner. This is a
fine Country-- many of the apple Trees are richly laden with fruit--but we have yet seen Peaches in one place only & there few. The Weather has
hitherto been very pleasant. The housing is Chiefly [?] & many of the Roofs of the Old old buildings are coverd with Tiles . After 4 oclock left B
& in about 3 Miles got into Amos Leas who lives on another Branch of Monnotawny Creek havg rode about 26 or 27 miles this Day. 7th & 5th Day of the
week. Left Amos Leas after Breakfast & Crossing Oley Hill which commands a fine view of the Maxatawny Farms in about 10 miles riding got to Thomas
Lightfoots where we Dind & I finished a Letter begun yesterday at B Wrights Directed to mother & left it with Tho Lightfoot to put into Reading
Post Office on 7th Day. Maiden Creek Meetg House is about a Qr. of a mile from Tho's & the Creek (a fine stream) is but little further about one
oclock we left here & traveld on the Sunberry Road about 13 miles & then took the Cattarsessey--we had the Blue Ridge of mountains in view
ascending Oley Hill & at the foot of the Mountain we passd  thro' Hamburg--sometimes calld Carchers Town--& then went thro the mountain at the Gap
which may be calld the Schuylkill Gap as this River not only pushes thro it but also forks near the Centre of the Mountain. Our Road lay up the
Little Schuylkill sometimes calld the Tamogwaca. Our Road was a pretty good dug Road & in many places perhaps 100 feet from the Water they are at
work at formg a Turnpike from Reading to Sunbury--we passd thro many valuable Farms in this afternoons Ride when about the Centre of the mountain
the sun was set to us at 10 minutes after 4 oclock--about 1/2 past 5 we reachd Bensingers Tavern being Calld 17 Miles from T Lightfoots 8th. Rested
indiferently last night--this morng started soon after Day Break & rode 7 miles to Breakfast at Gilberts Tavern--in comg here we passd the sicond
blue Mountains at the place calld Hollers Gap where they have a fine saw mill supplied by a lively stream calld tumbling Run--there is a good deal
of Hemlock in this Gap and the Mountain sides are also timberd tho a Continued Pile of [Rocks?] & very steep--we found riding this morn
unpleasantly cold & their Beans and tender vegetables are quite killd with Frost of which they have had there. Breakfasted at Gilberts Tavern 7
miles & there crossd the Tuscarora Mountain & at its foot the Schulkill--then the Locust Mountain & at the bottom two Branches of Little Schulkill
or Temogua--next went over the Broad Mountain & then the Mochanoy--the largest of all the foregoing--they & the intervening vales are covered with
Chesnut W Oak White & Yel Pines Hemlock & Locusts and in some places Timberd very finely--corn, Buckwheat, &c. killd with Frost--at the Bottom of
Mockanoy Mountain runs Cattowessey Creek & along its Edge for a great distance was a Dug Road which though far from  the Mountain's Top in a great
heighth from the bottom of the Vale--it is calld 20 Miles from Gilberts, where we breakfasted, to Drexlers where we arrivd ab. 1/2 past 12 & dind
on our own provision--Drexler furnished oats for our Horses--when they done feedg we ascended the little Mountain (so calld) but we all thought
much the highest & steepest we had traveld over--it was extremely Rocky yet Adornd with an abundance of Flowers Huckelberrys &c we soon crossd the
head Waters of Cattawessa Creek & a few miles from there Roaring Creek & meetg House--in 5 or 6 miles further after crossg Cattawessy Mountain we
reached Cattawessa. over the Waters of which they have lately Built a New Bridge, coverd in from the Weather. The Peaches in the neighbourhood
look very healthy but the Peaches are not yet ripe--the soil is pretty good but very rough--we reachd here before sunset being about 14 miles
from Drexlers which makes 41 rode today- we separated in this Village T Stew. & myself have taken our Quarters at Benj. Sharplesss who mar. a
sister of Issac Bonsall--Cattawessa is a small village situated at the foot of the mountain & on the Susquehanna River, which we crossd in a Boat
after Breakfast being about 1/2 a mile wide--it is often fordable but now high--Fishing Creek put into it just above & it appeard in our view in
several places as we rode on our way--then crossing the Chillisquaqua Hills--coverd principally with Pine Chestnut & Ground Oaks & W oaks we got
to Jersey Town before noon ab. 12 miles & dind on our own Provisions--Peach Trees here look healthy & are pretty full--no marks of frost here--rode
to Muncy 17 miles in the afternoon--on our way crossd the Muncy Mountain at least 3 miles across the top & the Muncy Creek which is a fine
stream- lodgd at Mercy Elliss--the Widow of William--our ride to day is calld 30 Miles. 1st Day 10th. Attended Muncy Meetg about a long Mile from
Mercy Ellis's, where we went back to Dine havg left our Horses to rest--Amos Lea, an Old Woman & Jesse Haines appeard acceptably in the Ministry--
after Dinner went to a little Town calld Newberry where we lodgd at Sloanes Tavern--calld 15 miles from Muncy--on our way forded the Loyal sock &
Lycoming Creeks, both beautiful streams, very Clear & fine gravelly Bottoms--about 3 miles back we also passd thro Williamsport which is the
County Town their Court House is a handsome Building- the West Branch of the Susquehanna River lays to our left much of our way this afternoon &
the loyalsock enters into it about 1/2 a Mile below our Fording--this Eveng we had a little treat of Red Plumbs very fine but not quite ripe--the
Road to Day has been very good but the Weather Warm--Course ab. S.West Set off ab. 7 in the morng havg Just got a very good Breakfast--our Course
was ab. N.West over several spurs of the Allegeny Mountains--the last of which calld the bald Mountain was ab. 8 Miles across & much the most
steep & difficult of ascent of any before passd by us--I think 1/4 of a mile we rode on the Rocks & loose Stone that our Horses needed rest when we
had reachd the Top--those Mountains are Timberd with Chesnut White Pine, White Oaks & other fine Timber but in places over a large Extent they
were layd Prostrate by a Hurriccane--about 12 oClock we crossd Larry's Creek & stopd at a Vacant House built by Benj. Morris on Lands belongg to
himself & Co. but now deserted & going to ruin & the Fieldswhich were cleard at an Expense of 20 Doll. for Acres growing up again--here we fed our
Horses with Oats bro. from Sloanes & let them regale themselves with Grass which grows here very fine--in great abundance, without enclosure a
little Bread & Cheese servd us for our Dinner & a Drink from Larrys Creek diluted our repast--just before getting to this House we passd thro a
Swamp of White Pine exceeding anything I had ever before seen. TS told us that Ja. WIlson once askd him as they were passing it whether he thought
if the Timber was all cut into Cord Wood it could be Corded on the Ground at the usual Cord heighth--several of us thought in some places it would
not be done--some of the Trees I believe were at least 16 feet in circumference & we supposed 75 to 11 feet clear of the Limbs- this place is
calld 17 Miles from Sloanes when we had finishd eatg we saddled up & proceeded 13 Miles further to Rich. Moores Mill or Delmarr Post Office which
is also Seated on a part of the Lands of B. Morris & Co. as do all the Lands we have rode over this Afternoon--being a fine rich red mold heavily
Timberd with White Pine, Sugar Maple, Beach, Buttonwood, Birch & other Timbers & much under Brush. One kind calld the Trip up which produces a
Berry now red, but when ripe nearly black--the Reds are very fond of them & we eat some--within a few miles of Rich. Moores we came to a branch of
Pine Creek & forded it I believe at least a Dozen times we found the Road a little muddy this afternoon but better than we expected & soon after
getting in it began to rain. Benjamin Mooress Track of Land extends about 6 miles further being ab. 19 or 20 miles in length & from 2 to 4 in
width Wellsborough Benjamin Town is about 17 Miles from this place, where they [?] Co. have also a considerable Track of Land. We supd with a
relish on Trout, Veinoson & a Dish of Coffee &c. & after had a good nights Rest. I wrote home from here directed to Sister Mary. 12th. left Rich.
Moores after Breakfast our Course nearly South East. Crossd another spur of the Allegany Mountains descending wh a stony muddy road is calld a mile
& I think it was, so--Our Road this forenoon was very bad with Roots & mud--in ab. 14 miles riding we put in at Ja. Dixons--who mar. a Daughter of
Ja. J--our intention was to feed only but Wm. Ellis havg given them inform. of our comg along they had prepard a Dinner of Venison, Ham, Cabbage, &
I think the best Potatoes I ever eat--there were two Farms adjoining & two Houses had lived about 4 years in one of them--it is now converted into
a Barn--after Dining we proceeded thro Road the worst we had yet found & in about 5 miles descended another Hill about a Mile down in parts very
steep & muddy--the Timber is principally Hemlock & Sug. Maple the soil a rich black mold or mixd on a Clay Bottom. Our Course has  been very
Crooked--first about East then N.West & toward Evening West--we crossd the Branches of Pine Creek a great many times--& Pine Creek four Times--
rode about Eleven miles since Dinner (25th Day) & put in before night at Aaron Lurmans small House on the Banks of Pine Creek where they have
Employd much Labour in planting a  by makg a Stone Wall or bank across the Creek in form of a V. Pine Creek is here a Princely Stream quite equal
I think to the Schuylkill. Our Road to Day was the most likely to have misled us of any Day before but at Rich. Moores we met with Jn. Norris who
accomp. us till some miles after Dinner--Lycoming Creek is in Lycomg County We had Trout Both for Supper & Breakfast, and altho our Lodging was in
Beds of Straw our Sleep was Sweet & entertainment very pleasant. the Woman of this house is an agreeable, obliging, tidy Person & made us heartily
welcome. In the morng we went with a young man to the Fish Basket were we took out I believe 4 or 5 Doz. Chiefly Trout, we went in a Canoe ab. 40
feet in length--the first I had been in-- 13th. Took our Course this Morng on Kings Road & up Pine Creek fording it a great many (perhaps 30) times
in about 22 miles where it heads in the Alleghany Mountain, which we here crossd over as this Mountain is doubtless very high as we have been now
more than two Days riding up the Waters of Pine Creek which are rapid in their Descent yet heads here. Tho. Stewardson also told us that not only
Pine Creek, but the Sinnemahoning creek [?] with Pine Creek empty up the Susquehanna Gennesee & Allegany Rivers all head within a little Distance of
our place of crossing (perhaps a circle of 4 Miles)--that it is calld the highest Land in Pennsylvania and this Mountain the Back Bone of America--
we found it muddy & Stony  in our ascent but much better in going down. it is well Timberd & a large space of land pretty level & good on the top
--Our Course to day has been mainly West--our Road Muddy & rough the worst on the whole that we have had--the Timber in places good but not
generally so heavy as yesterday--at Lurmans we put a cake of Break in our pockets & 2 Qts of oats each in our Bags for our Horses (being all they
had threshd)--this frugal fare was soon dispatchd about noon at an Indian Encampment by the side of the Pine Waters, where we stopd in the Woods
there being no House between here & Lurmans, nor shall we find any they tell us before we reach Kings settlement (calld Ceres Town). We have been
last riding thro Tioga County but are now in Potter County, this is written at William Dyres's--25 Miles from Lurmans which we left  this Morng -
& reach'd here about two Hours before Night - They are now Clear & a New Route Rode from the head of Delaware to Presque Isle which passes by
where we now are 14th a heavy Frost this morning here after Wm Ayres parting at Wm Ayres & set out & passing down the Allegany Hollow with the
Mountains on either hand crossd the Head of the Allegany River another part of the Allegany Mountain, several miles in breadth then descending into
a Vale fed our horses & eat a little bread and cheese near the head Waters of the Oswaya Creek which valley we continued in & up the Oswaya about
14 miles, several times fording it till we got to Kings Settlement, calld Ceres Town which is situ ate on this Stream -- on a rich spot of Bottom
Land -- about 9 Miles from here we saw a black Wolf in the Road before us which gallopd  Leisurely into the woods looks back before he turnd out,
to see also way coming - We have seen this afternoon some of the longest + tallest Pines that we have before seen - the Travelling to Day not so
stony in for grave Jayn hurt nor quite so. muddy but very Rooty of, except the mountain, The Land. more level - The Oiwaga is a fine stream but
the fall being very gradual it moves Slowly & enters into the Allegainey about 6 miles from here - this is McKean Country - we are 29 miles from
our last nights Lodging- I have passed but two Habitations in which are within about 5 miles of where we now are. in this neighbourhood as also at
Pitts -. burg + on the Monongahala The inhabitants are subject to a dwelling of the Seek which sometimes extends  further out than the Chain -- it
is often attended with considerable Inconvenience & sometimes proves Mortal, the swelling & spreading over the Body generally. The Line which
Divides the States of Pennsylvania & N. York seems so near that Francis King told us we might see the Timber growing in the Latter & that after
mounting our Horses as we should go pretty directly into it -- about 3/4 of a Mile - after Breakfast & tea feeling an impression to have a
religious oppy in the family, they were assembled & we had a pretty satisfactory time -- by an examination of Adlums Map if appears that our
Coursmam course from Phil. here is about North West & by West - from here to Tunessasaah West & by now their round about Course by the Allegany -
the uce to Catterogas nearly North  Francis King is a Widower his 4 Sons & 4 Daughters -- One Son named John & 3 Daughters grown up  appear to be
sensible & well informed, he is an Englishman. after Dining at F. Kings (he accompanying us as Pilot) we pursued our Journey, - about 1 1/2 or 2
miles of which seemd the Cap' Sheaf- Hilly sideling- stumpy, rooty, Muddy, Loggy - rough & really dangerous so that I had several times like to
have been unhorsd. in about 5 Miles the Alleghany appeard on our Left hand a Noble lookg Stream & navigable with Raft & Canoes - in a small
Distance further we forded the Oswaya just before the junction of the two Streams Our Road was by the side of the Allegany & often on its Banks
till we got to Major Adam Hoops's about 10 1/2 Miles from F King & is in Cattaraugus County. New York State- Adams is a Bache lor & once resided
in the City of Phil his Brother Robert lives with him & was once a Member of Congress from N. Jersey but  but is now reduced. Francis King told us
that it was 60 Miles by Water from where we first forded the Allegany Waters to the place we first saw it this Afternoon & that Thomas Dutton &
Family embarkd from this Place on a Raft for Tunassasa- we supd & Lodgd here & 16th after Breakfasting took our Course down the Banks of the
Allegany for some Miles crossing several fine Mill Streams, [Oliens, Tumguya, Nsgu & Teusguyowaughtee which empty into it - about 8 miles our road
was pretty good & about 15 more bad enough I think we passed some of the Deepest & Coughs that we have had to wade thro' & being only a foot
way, much overhang with Bushes - very crooked & uneven & many fallen Logs, made it extremely Difficult & Dangerous - the Steeps were so great that
we could  with difficulty keep our Horses in ascending & Descending - several times we have forded the Allegany- the Sand for the most part level
& little or no store & generally good but the edge of one Mountain which we passd over was strong. The Timber, white Pine, White Oak & Sugar Maple
principally about Noon we put on at Peter Snyder & obtaind some Corn for our Horses of an Indian Woman who livd Close by- some Crackers & Cheese
brot by Amos Lea servd for our repast which being over we mounted our Horses & being now on better ground on the Indian reservation & among the
settlers the Path was more Cleard & good travelling. we had an Old White man for our Guide whom we met with at Adam Hoops's & am Old Indian who
had waited at Francis Kings, [beasing?] that we were expected, - his name, Joshua - after twice more fording the Allegany & passing thro  the
Indians Town, calld Cold Spring- we reachd the Settlement of our Friends at Tunassassa about 1/2 past 5 oClock, I believe under a grateful sense
that we had been mercifully cared for & helped  along- found our Friends here well to Wit Thomas Dutton & Sarah his Wife with 3 of their
Children- (3 more being left behind in Pennsylvania) Agness Cadwalader - Joel Swain & Jonathan Thomas - There are about 30 Houses in the Indian
Settlement some of them well built & their Corn, beens & truck look well- they have had no port on this River, but when we came to where our
Friends are settld which is half a Mile from the River the Corn & Vines were killd- Cold Spring is about 2 1/2 or 3 Miles from here as we rode
Thro'- the Indians who saw us lookd very pleasantly, but the greater part of them were from home some gone to & Council at Buffalo & others out a
Hunting to procure Ven nison against their Brothers return, when they are to have a Dance or religious Festival- 17th First Day- all well this
Morning except A Lea a little complaining- It seeming probable that we should be detaind here longer than agreeable in consequence of the Indians
absence it was thought best that a Messenger should be dispatchd this morning to harken their return T Stewardson therefore wrote a few lanes &
Jonathan Thomas took Set over to Cold Spring agreed with an Indian to Take it to our Friends at Cattaraugus for $1.50 - being about 40 Miles on
Jonathans return we set with the Family in a religious way & the Meeting was satisfactory- after Dinner. they told us that within a few Months two
Indian Women had been killd by the Indians for being guilty as they adjudgd of Witchcraft- One of them I think among the Tuscarora Indians, they
first knockd her in the Head & then threw her in the Fire the other was an Onandago Indian who was send (accompanied by her Husband & a few of her
near Relatives to Cold Spring for trial - it was a very small Council but on looking into her hands she was pronounced Guilty of the Charge by
Conudiu who is calld the Old Prophet (Cornplanters Brother)-  and on considering what should be done with her Old Fatty (whom we saw & shook hands
with at Snyder's Yesterday) said if he was a younger Man & able for war as he once was he would put an End to her- on which Sun Fish immedeately
caught up an axe & knockd her in the Head & among them they compleated the Massacre - Friends were Sonorant of their procedeing till this
perpetration of the act, but the Indians appear dissatisfied & do not like to talk about it- The Relatives of the woman threaten revenge (Blood
for Blood) if ever they Catch Sunfish - to this affecting account Joel related a pleasing counter part. A white Trader about 5 Months back had
brought a Load of Goods up the River & among the rest some Cyder & Cyder Royal - stopping at Cold Spring he offerd them for sale & the Indians not
aware of the effect of Cyder royal many of them purchased & Drank, particularly a few of their Chiefs who collecting in their Council House made a
polic of it & became Intoxicated this very much alarmd many of the Sober Indians who threatned to starve his Casks  & let out the Liqur & if he
did not go away. they however thought it but first to come & advise with Friends & with this View several of their warriors came down to Tunahasa.
on their Representation Joel Swain & Jacob Taylor went with them to their Town but the Trader probably alarmd with the threats of the Indians had
removd his canoe further up the Rivers, where it is expected he disposd of his Liquors among the White People- Joel said he believd the Indians
were taken in by the Cyder ryal at [unawares?] not being acquainted with its strength this afternoon 5 of the Young Indian Women & Girls come here
to spin Tow & some of them his Grain to be ground at the Mill which being done they gatherd wood & prepared a repast - This is their common
practice- the first Day of the Week is no Day of Distinction to them but their Work Hunting or amusements are every Day alike pursued- how far it
may be rights for our Friends to indulge or, so far, coun  countenance this disregard of the first Day as to Grind for them & to instruct themin
spinning just as on the other Days of the Week is a query deserving consideration- The Flax Tow & Wool which the Indians spin here belong to
Friends as also the sping wheels- all the Indian Girls & Women who incline to [lam?] are at liberty to come while there are materials to work upon.
their thread & yarn is tyed up separately with their several named on each Parcel & when they have done Jonathan Thomas Weaves it & gives them
each free of charge as mush Cloth as their yarn has made, which he determines by the number of Cuts in each parcel- Joel further told us that
when the Great Eclipse of the Sun took place in 1806 they were that Day, raising their Barn & several Indians helping them- he had told them in
the morng that at a Certain  time of the Day the sun would become Dark this they would not believe & one of them gave him to understand that he
believed he told a Lie- when Joel believed it to be just coming on he went to the House & brought to the Barn a piece of smoked Glass & desired
the Indians, who disbelieved to look thro' it- he acknowledged he saw something which he could not understand- when it was about half on they
lookd at it again & then began to be convinced that it would be as Joel had represented- he then told them they might see that while People knew
more than Indians & that they could tell these thing for years before they happened- This Eclipse here was total & Joel said it was as Dark as it
is in a clear star light night when there is no Moon- the Stars were then Vissible & the Darkness such as to make it Dangerous being aloft in the
Building- the air had the feeling & dampness of the Evening- Jonathan related a circumstance a little similar of an Indian Man since he has been
with them at the time of an Eclipse of the moon. the Indian would not believe him till seaming obliged conviction, when wrapping himself in his
Blanket & lying down he said he was a Poor Indian & that while  Folks knew every thing- As we were going to Bed T Stewardson told me that we must
return about 10 miles by the same road when we go to Cattaraugus- after getting to Sleep I dreamd that we were on our Way & had some rugged steeps
to Contend with but my Dear Father I thought was in Company & my Companion - I then thought I had got to Burlington & met with many of my Friends
there. shook hands with James Sterling & crossd the Street desiring to go into my own Habitation but the Buildings seemd changed I then found
myself setting in Unkle Robert Smiths Entry where many of my Connections & Friends came in & we had an affectionate meeting & felt near to each
other but I could not reconcile being there to my own mind- sometimes I concluded it must be a Dream, but it continued so long & seemd so like a
reality that I began to question whether I was in my right mind I at lenghth concluded it could not be real I told Mother that altho mentally I
was thus with them my Body was far distant & I must return - I was beginning to relate my persuasion that this  was the Care to Robert Smith Jun
who I also thought was there & felt very near to me, when I awoke with a sweet Impression that though widely separated in Body from my Dear Friend
we were near in the Bond of that Fellowship which Time nor distance cannot prevent- the affectionate Impressions under which I awoke I continued
for some time to enjoy, & now while writing they revive- 18th several of us employd part of this forenoon fishing in Tunassasa Creek & caught
between six and seven Dozen Fish which were cookd for us in the Evening & next morning. after Dinner we took a Walk to look at a large stone about
30 feet in circumference on the surface where of about 15 or 18 Inches asunder were hollow spaces a little larger than trenchers which bore the
appearance of having been done by design yet for what purpose we could with no Certainty Conjecture but perhaps to pound their Corn, as  each
space (except one near the middle) was so situate to allow a very convenient seat by the side of it on the stone. Jonathan also entertained me by
some Information of several things of which I was not before acquainted- he says that the Indians Reservation of Sand on the Allegany River is 3
1/2 Miles in length, including the stream & in places more than a mile in breadth containing about 26,880 Acres- The Cateraugus Reservation on the
Cateraugus River contains the same quantity. The Buffelo Reservation on Buffelo Creek contains 100 square Miles or 64,000 Acres- The Tonowonto
Reservation has the same content & is situate on Tonowonto Creek- The Connegaugus Res. 2 Square miles, or 1280 Acres- The Garda 2,500 Acres.
Bigtree half  Little beards Town- the same & Squaka Hill the same, as much very 1280 Acres and Caneadeeo 12,800 Acres these Six last Reservations
are all on the Circumference or branches of the Genneseeo River & the whole nine are reservd by the Seneca Nation of Indians the number of whom
at their last return, 4 years ago, was about 1800. about 600 of which number are now on the Allegany River. The Senecas have also a reserve of 640
Acres on the Issue (or Issues) or Olean Creek whereon is an Oil Spring from which the Seneca Oil flows in abundances it rises on the top of the
Water & is collected by Flannel Cloths in which it is absorbd. the Indians then boil it to separate the Water & other matter, when it is fit for
Sale. he also told of a Spring on the Cateraugus River from whence arises a  sulpherous air which on the Application of a candle or Coal of Fire
blazes to the heighth of about two feet & about 20 miles in Diameter- On the Bank of the same River about 150 feet in height from the shore is an
Antient fortification covering about three quarters of an Acre- behind which is an Entrenchment about 10 feet in Depth having neat the middle a
level Gateway of perhaps 10 feet & with [intis?] also level- this is supposed to have been entrenched by Civilized Inhabitants perhaps 2000 year
ago, as none of the Indians can give any account of it- There are two similar fortifications on the Allegany River, one of them on the  Indians
Reserve (but they are not quite so large) and several Mounds containing a Chalkey substance supposed too be Bones of Dead Men- all bearing the
same marks of Antiquity. 19th Took an Excuition among the Indians to Day. we set out after Breakfast accompanied by Joel Swain & Thomas Dutton &
James Pinebrush am Indian assorted us with his Canoe which we got into at the landing place 1/2 mile from Tunassasa- about two Miles up the River
went ashore at Ja Pinebrushs's House to render him some assistance among his Cattle- walkd from here to Cold Spring where we helpd Nicholas
Silverheels to raise one End of his House it was a Two Story log building very comfortably finished with Glass Windows &c. but being on Descending
Ground had setted at the lower End, not having been properly undermined- Paid a visit to Nicholas Silverheels & bought several pair of Mockassins
to take home with us- then  lookd about the Settlement & went to see Henry Obeal, Cornplanters Son, Henry after shewing us his Potatoes Beens &c
went over the River with us to shew their Corn Field. we then went further up the Stream & landed on the opposite shore to eat some Provission
brought with us it being near Dinner time. then pushd up to the House of the Minister, which is painted Red & white with white Paling & at a
Distance looks very smart. did not find him at home & the House was shut up. this is about 7 Miles up the Allegany from where we first took boat &
we should likely have gone further & stopd at several other places but heard that the Indians were from home. therefore returnd & made another
stop at the Town. The Indian Boys here shewd us their Dexterity with Bows & arrows & Blow Guns & arrows. shoating  down several Birds calld Cross
Bills in presence of our Company- As we went up the Allegany we saw a number of Allegators lying at the bottom of the River, two of which James
Pinebrush struck with his setting Pole & bro. them to the top of the water for us to look at, but said they were too ugly to put into the Canoe-
they were about 15 Inches in length had 2 feet & at first view bore some semblance to a Dirty Mud Catfish- they are rather stupid & inactive. the
Indians Corn & other Truck look pretty well but tis said not quite so good as usual & more weedy owing to the Coldness & Wetness of the season-
they use the Hoe principally in preparing for & tending their Crops. it is said they have improvd in Cleanliness in their Habitations but they are
still Dirty- as also in their Persons. Beside the Reservations of Land mentiond in the foregoing notes. Cornplanter & some other of the Chiefs have
several Grants  in Fee. These Reservations were made to the senecas when they sold the Residue of their Lands to Rob. Morris--apart of the
purchase money for which was paid & the residue vested in Bank Stock which now produces an Annuity to them of Six Thousand Dollars & when divided
is about four Dollars pr head. Of this they all recieve equally, an Infant drawing as much as its Parents, or as a Chief. Except the Private Grants
to the Chiefs & some specific Annuities to six of them which annuities are to cease when the Die. They have no pecuniary advantage above other
Indians neither have they any other Power of authority that their Weight & Influence gives them. this is acquired by their Wisdom in Council or
Exploits in War, & sometimes both & while they Continue to hold the good opinion & Respect of their Nation they are advised with & lookd up to in
all Cares of Difficulty  but when this good opinion Ceases they are discarded from their Councils--they are appointed by the other Chiefs & Indians
when assembled by Council. The Senecas, Mohawks, Cayugas, Onandago's, Tuscarora's, and Oneida's are calld the Six Nations & are all principally in
the state of New York except the Mohawks who mostly reside on Grand River in upper Canada. Most of there Nations are Diminished but particularly
the Senecas who were once very powerful- these several Nations are divided into Tribes. The Tribes of the Senecas & their Chiefs are as follow--
vis the Wolf Tribe which has for Chiefs Cornplanter, Connudiu, Tickyando and Strong--the Bear Tribe, John Pierce, Crow & Halftown Deer Tribe--
Josiah, Old Fatty, & Snipe Snipe Tribe--Te us se was sy, young Fatty, Henry Obeal & Charles Obeal, Turtle Tribe--Blue Eyes & Much, Crane Tribe--
Johnson Silverheels Beaver Tribe--Tall John, & the Hawk Tribe--Jacob Snow 3 The Indians of the Settlements generally abstain from the use of
Spiritious Liquors so that it has become very rare to see one of them Intoxicated. Since which they seldom quarrel or fight among themselves but
live in Harmony together--this Disposition they endeavour to Cultivate among the Children & hence they rarely differ as is very common with Boys.
Their Dress is yet for the most part in the Indian Stile but an Immitation of the mode of Dress used among the Whites is increasing among them--
they are naturally avaricious & saving & not being so liable to Imposition as when they drank Spirits, some of them are growing rich- but other
expend their earnings in Trinkets & Finery--the desire for Trinkets seems however abating. Altho mostly Ingenious quick of apprehension & keen in
penetration they are many of them very Ignorant & helpless, inclinable to Indolence & cannot readily reconcile themselves to  Labour. this however
is not the case with all & their prejudices have some share in continuing this disinclination to Labour among the Men--as it was formerly
accounted Disreputable & degrading for them to do what was considered the Womens Business. The Men Built the House & Hunted to procure Meat &
Skins--the Women Hoed the Ground planted, tended & gathered the Corn, then pounded & cookd it--cut the Wood & brought it home--carried home the
Deer Elk &c which their Husbands had killd in hunting--brought him Water, in short did the laborious business principally--these prejudices are
wearing off since the settlement of Friends among them--the men both Old & young now turn out in the spring of the Year & fall Timber & split Rails
--make the Fences & assist in preparing the Ground for Planting. for this purpose the Plow is some times used but more commonly the Hoe, some of
the men assist also in tending the corn throughout the season & do not so much as formerly require the Women to wait on them as perform every
trivial service. I saw one of their Boys hawling stone with a sled & oxen  which he drove with Considerable judgment & appeard pleasd with his
performance this he would have once been hooted at for & perhaps his Bow & arrow taken from him- formerly if a man took hold of a Hoe to use it
the Women would set down his Gun by way of derision & put the Hoe in its place would laugh & say such a Warrior is turnd is turned Woman& When a
Young Man inclines to marry & makes Choice of a Young Woman, he acquaints his Mother or eldest Sister of his Wish- one of them goes to the Mother
or eldest Sister of the Young Woman with his proposal of marriage & they communicate it to her- about this Period of the Courtship the Young Man
presents the Young Woman or her Father with a present of Broaches, Ear bobs or other Trinkets to the value of about 6 to 10 Dollars if his offer
or proposal of marriage is not accepted the present is returnd to him but if after considering it for some Days, it is satisfactory to her, her
Mother or Sister accompany her  to the Young Mans House & present her to him- the Mother or Sister then withdraw & she stays with her proposed
Husband- As the seasons for Planting hoeing gathering Corn, procuring Fire wood & other Business come on, the female connections of the Young
Woman assist her in the different opperations during the first year at the End of which without any other Ceremony the Marriage is considerd
valid & Honorable. they some times however take a shorter way for it & too commonly part again on small disagreements, both parties afterward
taking other companions there are now many among them in this circumstances 5 Their antient opinion respecting Thunder was that a Being whom they
calld Eno went [some was?] Great Spirit Inhabiting the Southern Mountains & having a Short Gun was in the practice of discharging it at his
pleasure some times striking the Trees & Splitting them  to shew his great strength & Power. He lived on large Snakes & Wild Beasts & was always a
Friend to the Indians tho' he sometimes killd white People this notion now obtains very little credit with them 6 They sometimes hunt near home &
some times go to the Distance of many Days Journey in which case the Wife & Family have been accustomed to go with their Husband. He builds them a
Cabin & then takes his Course generally or Down up some making a Kind of Bath by breaking down the [Reapers?] Stream of Water- if he kills a Deer
or other Arrival, he hangs it in a Tree & then makes his way to his Path along the Water course break the bushes down from the Deer till he
reaches it- he then scrapes with his feet in the Leaves or Snow & there are his marks for his Wife to find their Game- he then pursues by
[bremting?] & if he kills 3 or 4 or half a Dozen Deer marks his path from them in the same way- in the Evening he returns to his Cabin tird with
his Days Toil & his Wife gets  him his Supper if she has any thing to prepare he then tells her how many Deer he has Killd & where to find them &
off she goes next morning directed by his marks & broken topd Bushes & brings them home on her back often from a great distance & with [meak?]
Labour-/> If the man is benighted at too great a Distance to get to his Cabin & has killd a Deer it is not uncommon to strike up a Fire & making a
Spit of a Sharp Stick roast a [Hasp?] of his Deer which he begins to eat as soon as one side is done & so continues eating as his Vension cooks
sometimes till the whole Ham consumed Joel told me that some of the Indians when very hungry would eat a Ham of Venison without Difficulty- this
practice of Hunting still Continues except tat the further of bringing home the Deer is not so commonly put upon the Wife. Indians sometimes eating
so much at one time is accounted for from their often fasting a long time, sometimes several Days, & when they get Venison it is often eaten alone
 without Salt, Bread or Vegetables, till they quite loathe it- when they go on an Expedition either for Hunting or War, they frequently take with
their only a little parched corn pounded with some sugar this is light of Carriage & nourishing & on such a Diet they will sustain great hardships
for many Days. H told us that when he was once in this Country, several years back, an Indian was going with them a Journey of Two Days (Perhaps
for a Guide) on enquiry they found he had brought no Provision & asking why he came without, he replied- Hoh! I eat enough before leaving home to
last two Days- I am no Child- I am a Man ~ When at home they are in the general moderate in their Eating The Indians generally meany Young-the
Male, not unfrequently between fourteen & Eighteen and the Females from twelve to sixteen- it is also common for many of the Children to die before
they are 4 years Old but of those who survive that age in a general way it is supposed they exceed us in longevity