 about 3 Quarters of an Acre being encompassd by which entrenchment apparently intended for Pikes and having a  level Gateway on the back side. It
occupies a considerable Entrance or open up the mountains, laying behind which puts down to the main creek, and is now overgrown w/ heavy Timber of
at least an Hundred Years growth. On our way to the saw mill we passd thro' some very good corn, where the large Walnut Trees, killd by Girdling,
are standing. As we returnd home stopd at the Village of the Muncy Indians & talkd with several, particularly the Chief Warrior who was informed
that we intended a Council tomorrow with the Cattaraugus Indians & if they had any thing to communicate to us, they might do it as we passd thro'
their settlement. when we got into the Woods on the Indian Reservation, curiosity induced us to measure of the Walnut Trees there growing. One of
them appeared by our Measurement to be 15 Feet 8 Inches in Circumference another 16 ft 2 Inches & a third 16 ft 5 Inches. at 2 ft 6 In from the
level of the Ground. They were also very straight & tall, we unitedly concluded 60 feet without a [?] & held their thickness remarkably well. there
is little Doubt but we could have found larger had we gone to hunt them but these all stood close by our Road. On getting to the House we also
measured several Poplar stumps all within about 60 yards of it--on being 5 Feet 4 1/2 Inches in Diameter at the heighth of 4 ft 4 Inches over, at
the same heighth 4 Feet, 4 & 5 Inches over, at near the same heighth. 9 mo. 29th Met the Indians in Council at the Cataraugus Village, about 30
being present. It was Announced  at Cold Spring by the Blowing of a Trumpet & when they were Convened a Messenger was sent to inform us that they
were ready, & we accordingly went, Erasmus Granger, the Agent of the United States for the Six Nations of Indians bearing us Company--he had
unexpectedly met us here being on a Visit to the several settlements of Indians for the purpose of enquiring into their Improvements & wants, so as
to be enabled to make Report of their situation to the President of the U.S. He is a sensible, well informed & discreet Man, his Person tall &
handsome & Eye penetrating but his Countenance wearing the marks of Care & poor Health. About noon the Council opend & after sitting a while in
respectful silence, a Conversation, in a low voice took place among the Chiefs--when the Business was introduced to the following import by of them
named Thomson Brothers We heard you were coming to see us. we are happy you have now arrivd, and thank the Great Spirit that He has preserved you
thro' a Long Journey Brothers--We think it is Consistent with His Will that we should be favoured all to meet here this day in Council. We are also
pleased that Mr. Granger the Agent of the US for the Six Nations is present with us, and we are now ready to hear what you have to say. Our
Addresses being being read & interpretted to them by Henry York were well rec'd. The Indians again sat for a few minutes entirely silent smokeing
their Pipes, which was succeeded by a Whisper among the  Chiefs for some minutes when the same speaker (sitting) addressd the Agent, inform'g that
they understood he was going to Allegany & were desirous to know his particular business. Granger informd him that he would do it when they had
answerd our Communication. Another silence & whisper ensued. The Chief Warrior Wyundegohta then rose & holding our Addresses in his Hand folded as
delivered to him, some times looking on them attentively & then casting his Eyes round over us & the Council, replied nearly as follows Brothers
attend. We have heard the speech of our Friends at Phila. by which we understand that you still continue to speak the same Language to our Nation &
we believe your views towards us are the effect of Pure Friendship & a desire for our Welfare--and altho' we have fallen short of your former
advices we are still encouraged to follow your Council & pursue the Path you have set before us. You remain anxious we should improve in Habits of
Industry by which we might render our Lives more comfortable. Brothers we hope you will continue to have Patience towards us, as Indians cannot
adopt all those Habits at once but we are fully Convinced that Industry in Cultivating our Lands is the only method by which we can receive
lasting Benefits, and we are determined to pursue it  and hope we will still continue to make a gradual Advancement. Brothers We understand you
wish us to be benefitted by the Example of our Friends who are setled beside us, and wish our Firnds in Philad. to know we have rec'd considerable
satisfaction & advantage from them. We all rejoice that they are setled so near, and it is our intention to treat them with Kindness & consider
them as our Friends. The Day before the council we had prepared our Address to them, touching on various subjects in which we thought it needful
they should improve--to which Wyundegohta replied, Brothers, you that are now here have also told us that on looking over our Cornfields you find
we have not made as much use of the Plow as you could wish. We find that your Eye sight is straight. We acknowledge we have been deficient in this
respect, & the fault is our own. Brothers--A long time ago we requested you to send us a sett of Mill Irons, you accordingly sent them as you
promised--you also sent us a sett of Smiths Tools--you have fulfilld all your Engagements with us. We have not received the advantage from the saw
mill we expected--one reason is our People are Deficient in knowing how to work it--another Reason--the Water is not sufficient to saw more than
one Quarter of the Year. We have not received the advantage from the Smith Tools that we might have done, yet we have used them more than the Saw
Mill Some of our people have learned to do a number of small matters, yet we acknowledge we have been too neglectful of both. Brothers--You say
if our Minds were more strong to Labour--it would give our Women more time to learn to spin. We think this would be a great advantage to us, for
if our Women would learn to spin & make their own Cloth, the Money which they now use to buy Cloathes would be saved for other purposes. We think
this would make us more Independent & Happy, and when we are Dead our Children will have reason to rejoice that we have followed your
Instructions. Brothers--The Reason we have not made more use of the Plow Irons you sent us is--we have not had a sufficient number of Oxen, but we
are thankful you have sent them, as we have now got a number of young oxen growing up, & hope we shall be able to use them more. You observe we
have got a great many Horses & you think it will be better to have more Cattle & Oxen. Your Remarks on this subject are just, we have found
inconvenience from so many Horses, for all the use they seem to be to us is to ride about home, but when we have occasion to go amongst White
People, we find them only a Bill of Expence. Brothers--We are thankful for your friendly advice. Our Hearts rejoice  for the Good Council you have
given us, and we wish you to keep your Minds strong towards us. Thos Stewardson made a short verbal reply & when he had done, Old Half Town told
us that they had done with the use of Spirituous Liquors, every Man, but there were yet three Women who would sometimes become Intoxicated, yet
they did not intend to cease Labouring with them till they became reformd. This old Half Town some years back was much in the Practice of getting
Drunk & when the Allegany Indians Banishd the Poison, he said there was no get Drunk at Allegany --he would not stay there but would go to Buffaloe
--he accordingly went, but did not stay long before he came to Cattaraugus where he now lives & is so far reformd that Friends dont know of his
having one frolic this season, yet they suspected him once. He is a very stout Indian & has been a Chief of great Influence. Wyundegohta (which
signifies, he has gone by) is a very respectable  serious & Worthy Character--his Person tall--Countenance modest & appearance Plain--he is
industrious & very hospitable which character he has sustaind for many years. His Wife is also a Worthy Woman but not very nice. Half Towns Indian
Name is Codjeyate --or to put a cork in a Bottle. Thomsons Name is Kys wyd twa--or the whole side of a Hog There were also several other Chiefs of
lower Grade present at Council. After our Business with them was gone thro' Granger informd them of the Object of his Visit & concluded with some
very suitable advice, all correspondent with ours & tending to enforce it. On breaking up, our Comp't with E Granger went to the House of
Wyundegohta where we found his Wife had been preparing us a Repast & was just bringing it into the Store House where we had been received--it
consisted of a Bowl of Soup made of Wild Pidgeons &c--the Pidgeons being left in--and some Indian [Cakes?] one kind made of Old Corn Pounded &
baked in the Ashes--the other of new shelld off corn which it was said had been tied up in a Corn Husk and Boild--but I think it had also been 
baked a little in the Ashes--the Cakes I tasted with some reluctance but was afraid of giving offence if I did not--& the kind made of the New Corn
I should have thought really good had some of my White Friends been the Cooks--the other Cakes tasted of the smoke with which their old Corn is
generally seasoned. The Pidgeons were taken in the Fingers & eaten with little ceremony & the soup was obtaind by the aid of an Old black Wooden
Ladle which each person inclining to partake took hold of and supd till he was satisfied & then left it in the Dish for his successor & so it went
round to many of the Company who pronounced it very good--I however felt satisfied to take their Word for it & therefore it will not be safe to
contradict them. On Our Way home stopd at the Muncy Village but they had nothing material to say to us--they appear more Dirty & Idolent than the
Seneca Indians & are considered by them as their Inferiors yet they permit them to live on their Land on sufferance as they the Munceys have no
Land of their own, & this may in part account for their degraded state--they have little stimilus to exert themselves in Improving Lands while only
Tenants at Will of the Senecas, who do not respect & Esteem them. They are a part of the Delaware Nation. 9 mo. 30th 30th. Some of our Co. spent
part of the Day in Walking over the Farm & Viewing the Land situation for a Grist Mill &c. It is a beautiful kindly soil the greater part of it
high land & well Timberd--as is also the Valley or Bottom Land, of which there is about 100 Acres. This Valley or bottom, which runs from here to
Lake Erie (about 9 or 10 miles distant North West) it looks very probable was once a part of the Lake & is very rich. Our Friends have near 30
Acres Cleard & Clearing & the Oats, Wheat, & Vegetables grow very fine--to the West of the House about 60 yards is a beautiful spring on the Edge
of the Hill about 110 feet from the surface of the Valley, which this spring is conducted into a bark Spring House--into a Water Trough &c. in a
very convenient & simple manner. Part of the Dwelling House is made of logs--about 13 feet square a second addition is constructed of the Bark of
the Black Ash, sewed with the inside Bark of the Wood The Frame or skeleton of the Building  is first made with small poles set in the Ground &
Rafters of the same lyed on them- the Bark is then placed edge ways by way of Weather boarding & Roofd of the same Material--each piece of Bark
being well tyed to the Poles with the [B?] wood Bark before mentioned--the Doors are each made of a single Bark Board & the floor is composd of
about 4 or 5 some of them being between 5 & 6 feet in Width--about 9 or 10 in length & an inch in thickness. The cost of this Fabric was $1.75
cents, and was built by the Indians by agreement for that sum. It was our Lodging & Eating Room while there--containd two Beds--a Large Table--two
Benches--several Chairs--Chest--Corn Mill- & sundry other Furniture too tedious to enumerate. Erastus Granger came home with us from the Treaty
last Evening & was my Bedfellow we had considerable conversation relative to the Indians & among other things got on the subject of their
Qualifications for Orratory--he said one of the most pathetic communications he had ever heard was from a Young Warrior of the Tuscarora Nation
about four years  ago. The Indians had taken up a couple of Women for the supposed crime of Witch Craft--one of these Women they had put to Death,
& the other to extreme Torture to extort from her a Confession of her Guilt. The young Warrior was the son of this Woman. Granger having by some
means heard what was going forward among them went to the Womans Relief and remonstrated with them on the evil & impropriety of such acts--they
however plead with him on the Necessity of taking the Womans Life & when the found he continued firm in his Objection, her own son stepd forth,
first lookd to the Ground & then raising his Eyes in a moving manner a' said My Friend I hope you will listen to what I have to say. I am the son
of that Woman--she is my Mother!--She nursed me when I was a Child, and I love my Mother!--Her Arms were extended for my protection--she laboured
for my support & Comfort!--how can I help but love my Mother? She clothed me & kept me from all harm both in sickness & in Health, and you cannot
doubt that I still love my MoMother, yet notwithstanding my strong attachment to her, I am convinced that she is a bad Woman & has been the means
of taking the Lives of some of our People by Witchcraft. I think therefore she ought to Die, and desire Mr. Granger that you will not oppose her
being put to Death. As to myself & my Brothers we have given her up for the Good of the Nation. Granger said that the young man (who was
unaccustomed to speaking in public) delivered this Expostulatory address with much emotion, appearing greatly affected--& with respect to himself
he said, as nearly as I remember his own language, that if he was to have had the World he could not have avoided shedding Tears- the Life of the
Woman however was preserved & said to be still living  & supported by that Son, but much deformed by the Tortures they used upon her. The Chief
Warriors Wife paid us a Visit today & spent a considerable part of the Time in Spinning with which she seems much pleasd & performs cleverly. 1st of
10 month. 1st Day. A shower in the Night from which our Bark Habitation entirely sheltered us. Intending to prosecute our Journey after an Early
Dinner, we prepard ourselves soon after Breakfast & sat down together with the Family (consisting of Benjn. Cope--Jacob Taylor--Stephen Twining &
Hank Jackson) about 9 oClock. Our Minds, I trust being disposed to offer an Acknowledgment of Gratitude to Him Who hath thus far preserved us &
Comfortably shed the Light of his Countenance on our present Undertaking & Embassy--with Denies also that He may continue His protecting Care,
both to us on our Return, and to our Friends here stationed--that He may Dispence to them a portion of His Wisdom to go in and out & hold
intercourse with the Natives promotive of their Improvement and of His Praise. With respect to the Concern of Friends in this Important Work, the
Pious Poets Petition occurd to me (and I hope, with propriety it may here be prefer'd) Prosper, We press Thee with a powerful Plea A Task we've
Venturd on, impelld by Thee. Our Opportunity together was a favourd one--the Overshadowing Wing of Antient Kindness accompanying our Minds, under
which a renewed Confirmation of the Promise was afforded, That where two or three are met & gathered in the Almighty Name--there He would be in
the midst of them. Amos Lea had a comfortable yet solemn Communication, reviving the scripture that here we have no continuing City & therefore
should seek one to come &c--but that if we were in our proper places it matterd not where our Exit as to sublimary Things took place. The Text
which had several times run thro' my own Mind, he also repeated. Where Two or Three &ca. I can acknowledge that in this Opportunity I felt
abundantly satisfied--it seemd like a seal of our being rightly put  forth & evidence that we are still cared for. After rising from an Early
Dinner, mounted our Horses for Home, Jacob Taylor accompanying us, having Business as Batavia our Road was across the Wilderness for about 12 or
14 Miles a single Horse Path. In this afternoons Ride I met with several Disasters--but the Last & Worst was from a Hemlock Knot sharp at one End &
laying in the Road--which my Horse stuck into his Near Hind Foot an Inch & 1/8th in Depth the effect of which was to lame him so much as almost to
Disable him from travelling- in this situation I travelld ab. 5 or 6 miles thro' an Extremely bad Road--perhaps the worst, some part of it, that I
ever saw my Comp'y leavg me behind I had some very unpleasant sensations, principally arising from the Pain which my Horse evidently traveld in--
they at length came to Lake Erie & there stopd for me after which about one mile along Its Shore brought us to a poor forlorn House kept by one
Enos  Enos (a new Comer there)--have rode this afternoon about 21 miles--& it now being night we with considerable Difficulty extracted the Snag
from my poor Horses Foot & without any other application than a little Black Alder Spirit which I had with me turnd him out with the rest in a bare
field, with a priveledge to go to a Hay stack if they inclind, which stood a good way off. The land lady provided us a supper of Tea &c. as good as
she was able & we were then told that they would leave us the Two Beds & the Room were we eat, to lodge in--being 5 in number, I told my Co. that I
intended to be the one who should take the Floor against this several of them objected, but I told them I did not intend returning home without
once making trial of such a mode of Lodging. I accordingly inverted a Chair--placed my Saddle & Bags upon it for a Pillow, & spread T Stewardsons
Blanket on the floor for a Bed--then puting on my Great Coat & wrapg myself in my own Blanket I lay down, Boots & all, with my feet to the fire &
had a very comfortable Sleep & some pleasant Dreams. Towards Day Jn. Brown  getting up to look after our Horses, awoke me & several Poetical
extracts presenting as appropriate to my situation, I had some very Instructive Reflections relative to the protecting care & paternal Regard of an
Almighty Father, whose Dispensations whether pleasant or Afflictive, are all in Mercy & unerving Wisdom. I then had another sweet sleep. In the
Morning rose early--fed our Horses & rode about 9 Miles along the Lake Shore to Breakfast at Buffaloe--calld now Amsterdam--my Horse very Lame,
travelling consequently painful both to him & myself yet it did not entirely prevent me from enjoying the Grandeiur of the Scenes presented by the
foaming Billows which lashd the shore, expressing in Accents Rude, yet awful & Sublime, the Omnipotence of Him who marks their Boundaries. The
Lake appears to be supplied, not only by the larger Waters which empty into it. The Mouths of several of which we crossd, viz. Smoke & Buffaloe
Creeks, but innumerable springs weep from its Banks & loose themselves in its hungry Sands which are so calculated to absorb small supplies that
the returning Billow is lost to the View, before the Welling is renewed by its speedy Successor. The Shore for the most part is coverd with a
Beautiful fine Gravel & small Shells--but in some places Sand & others mud--in some places it is receeding & in others forming & we were told that
when there is much Wind the Breakers exceed their Banks & dash over the adjacent Country, covering many Acres like a sea. Now Amsterdam is situate
near the Mouth of Buffaloe Creek about a Quarter of a Mile from the Lake and commands a View Point Abineau, about 14 Miles distant, and a
considerable extent of the upper Canada Shore about the Mouth of Black Creek, where a number of Friends are setled. Fort Erie, where there is a
British Garrison, stands opposite, yet the View is obstructed from the Town by  a skirt of Woods on this Bank, but when we cast our Eyes up this
Lake it looks like a mighty sea, and Vission is too short to scan its extent. The Town contains about 40 or 50 Houses & is increasing in
Population & handsome Buildings it seems to be a place of much intercourse & is about 22 Miles from Niagara Falls. There are several Indian Towns
within a few miles & the Indians are too often here to give hope, on national Ground, of their general reformation from their use of Spirituous
Liquors, & yet we were told that many of them have abandoned this Destroyer & stand firm against Temptation. Buffaloe Creek is navigable for
shallops several miles up yet subject to a Changeing Bar at its mouth, in which we forded it about 2 feet Deep & 10 Yards wide. The Lake where we
first struck it is calld 12 Miles wide--at Buffaloe 3 Miles & 3 miles lower down, at black Rock--One Mile & here there is a Ferry kept over into
Canada. At Buffaloe we saw a great many Indians among which were Red Jacket & the Farmers Brother, but all appeard to be sober. After Dining &
getting our Horses shod we mounted them & proceeded over the White Oak Plains, which appear to be composd of a large proportion of small Lime Stone
& an intermixture of pretty good soil--there are very few Trees, but fern & some scrubby Bushes & abundance of strawberry Vines. Erastus Grangers
House--a Neat Building, lay to our Left hand & 14 Miles from Buffaloe we stopd for the Night at Asa Harris's Tavern--my Horse had traveld in much
pain & next morning the 3d. I with Difficulty got him to move, he had also left his oats (for the first time since leaving home). Our Comp'y
intending Breakfast at Vandeventers Tavern 8 Miles distant, I got along with them, but neither myself or Horse being in Eating Mood we passd on
over a Rough Road much of it being log causeway 18 Miles to Batavia. I had drove him before me a Considerable part of this Distance & felt spent &
unwell on reach'g there--when my Co. came up a pretty good Dinner & Glass of Wine refreshd me but did not relieve my mind [?] felt in a great
straight what was best to be done--my Co. were intent on proceeding homeward & could not bear to a Detention--they therefore advised me to change
my Horse for another, or sell him & take the stage via Albany & New York, but to neither plan could I feel reconcild--& to be left behind among
strangers at such a Distance looked very gloomy, yet seemd the most satisfactory provided I could not keep along. Batavia is in Gennessee County &
the County Town has a fine Court House & prhps 30 Houses -- is situate on the Tonawanda which we crossd some miles before getting here, and a
little before Murder Creek. having Dind I went on with my Co. 12 Miles to Gansons Tavern, where I nursd poor Snip as well as I could, & next Morn'g
the 4th Rose before Day & rode over a poor Dry Country till we came to the Indian Reservation on the Gennessee River, which we Crossd, perhaps a
mile thro' the enclosd Flats, a very excellent soil coverd with rich Pasture, with Horses, Cattle & Swine  belonging to the Indians, feeding on
it. there are two settlements of Indians near here, one of which we passd thro. We passd also by a very large spring, which of itself was a mill
but in general this Gennessee County is badly Waterd & Water is bad--much of the soil is coverd with poor scattering scrubbly Oaks & full of Lime
Stone. At a little place calld Hartford we crossd the Gennessee River 13 Miles from Gansons & breakfasted at a Good Inn kept by Maria Berry-
after Breakfast submitted to my Friends whether they would advise me to go on with them or take my route alone Via Albany (the Road to which they
were now going to leave)--they encouraged me to proceed with them as my Horse seemd rather better, so passing over a barren country for some miles,
coverd principally with scattering Oaks, we came to a better soil & a number of Settlements--also passd thro' the noted Farm on which live two
Brothers by the Name ofWadsworth, Wm & James and is a part of the Big-Tree Reservation, principally Flats, very fine & bounding on the Gennessee
River--they here keep a very lrg stock & we were told 1200 head of sheep. At Williamsburg (a Wretched place, formerly noted for Horseracing &c, now
only three Inhabited Houses) we fed our Horses--eat a few poor red Plumbs & piece of Gingerbread & then mounted again coming pretty soon to a
Stream of Water calld Canneseraga being a Fork of the Gennessee River which here is about 8 Miles from us- along this Stream is a body of
valuable Flatts which lay to our Right & a Mountain to our left--this is a rich soil if rightly managed but the Farms are in poor Culture & many
of the Houses are deserted--partly owing (we were told) to the badness of the Water & partly, I suspect, from the use of Whisky which is sadly
common here --a little before Night reachd Danville which makes our Days ride 40 Miles- stopd at a Tavern kept by a Jonathan Rowley- here we met
with Colonel Troop & a young man from Albany & James Wadsworth, one of the  Brothers before mentioned--he told us, on our enquiry, that they had
about 1600 sheep & between 1 & 200 Cattle--this Daville is a poor little place, but the Landlady seemd disposd to entertain us according t the best
of her ability. Next Morning the 5th. rose about Day Break & rode 12 1/2 miles to Breakfast at Christian Hurlburts Tavern a Good House near the
Canisteo Creek--our ride this Morning chiefly over a spur of the Allegany Mountains--then passing a large Body of uninclosd Marshy Ground--then
after Breakfast about 11 o'Clock took our Way up the Canisteo Creek, pretty much following its courses in the Valley which is rich & affords many
fine Farms--the Hills on either hand appeared like Chains of Mountains, yet we were told that the Country on the Top is pretty level & well
Timberd--after making our Days ride 32 Miles put in at the House of Joseph Loughrey, a poor place but the only one then attainable--here 6 they
gave us our Breakfast about Day Break and keeping down the Valley 18 Miles we fed at Jones's Tavern & in 5 more came to the Tioga River where the
Canisteo emptied into it--we were all told that the Tiogo empties into the North Branch of Susquehanna about 50 Miles from here--after fording the
Canisteo & Teoga stopd & Dind at Fords Tavern just as it began to Rain, which Continuing we unbent on Great Coats for he first time that Rain had
made them necessary, & in about 3/4 of a mile riding cross'd the Cowawneskee & tak'g the left hand road of three forded the Tioga twice got in to
a Tavern kept by another Widow Berry, being a little West. Our Days ride computed 41 Miles--my Horse this afternoon much better of his Lameness &
in good spirits. We are now in the State of Pennsylvania hav'g crossd the Line of Pens'a & N York this afternoon between the Cowawneskee & Tioga.
7th Took an Early start again & rode Eleven Miles to Breakfast at a poor Tavern kept by one Greno. Our Road worse than we  have lately had it, the
mud being increasd by last nights Rain. The Land here is Good--well Timberd & many setlers our Course is up the Tioga--here has been no Frost of
Consequence, nor have we seen any since crossing the Gennessee River --after Breakfast pursued our route up the Tioga about 7 Miles further when
its increasing Murmers & Rapidity reminded us of a greater Elevation ahead--we accordingly soon began to ascend the savage Mountain being calld 10
Miles across & the Worst Travelling we have had since leaving Lake Erie--yet even on this Wild & Stony Height I was not destitute of Enjoyment. The
falling Beech & Sugar Maple Leaves mingling their sweets with the Mountain Air, after the Nocturnal shower, emitted a fragrance regaling to the
senses & cheering to the Mind--at the foot of this Mountain (sometimes calld Briar Hill) we put in at the Block House, now kept by S Hisley. We are
now said to be opposite Richard Moores where we lodgd in our Route up--being about 8 Miles off on a North Course. 8th Rose before Day & crossd the
Allegany Mountain, 9 Miles over--then Descended into a Valley, the Bed of Trout River, which in about 3 Miles we forded 30 times & put in about 10
o'Clock at David Reynolds Tavern, having rode 15 Miles over a very rough, Muddy & bad Road, being considerably wet by a heavy Drizzle, amounting to
a fine Rain- here we found Peaches in abundance & for the first time since leaving home, I feasted luxuriously upon them, both before & after
Breakfast--we are here again on the Lycoming Creek which runs before the Door--about 1/2 past Eleven following its courses & fording it many times,
with Mountains high on either hand we reachd Newberry in about 11 Miles riding--and Mercy Ellis's before Dark having rode 41 Miles. 9th
Breakfasted at Mercy Ellis's & then proceeded--from the Top of Muncy Hill the Cattawissa & other Mountains before us with the intervening Vale,
thro which the Susquehanna runs, our Prospect was very fine--then passing Hard Scrabble Town  we fed again at Jersey Town & Dind on our own
Provision--the appearance of Things being no temptation to call for Dinner. In a few Miles riding we got another feast of Peaches which are here
very plenty--when we came to the Susquehanna, no ferryman appearing at our call & the Water being lower than when we went up, we ventured to ford
it & got to Cattawessa before Dark. Tho. Amos & myself put up our Horses & supd at Benj. Sharplesses but lodged at Tho. Ellis's very comfortably,
& before 5 o'Clock next morn'g the 10th, they gave us Breakfast so as to enable us to set out with the first appearance of Day--as we left the Town
& for a Considerable Distance up the Mountain the Fog was so great as to make it very Damp riding--but when we had nearly reachd the Mountains top
we found ourselves entirely above it--on getting to the Top of the Little Mountain 10 Miles off we saw the Fog  still hanging over the Susquehanna
very heavy for along Distance--after Xg this & the Moehanoy Mountains fed our Horses about noon at Michael Ketteras 23 miles from Cattawessey-
the Weather very Warm, as it has been nearly ever since we have been on our return. Our next stage was at Bensingers which we reachd about sun set
--tird--& next morng the 11th rose before Day & rode to Breakfast 16 long Miles over a stony mountainous Road, at Mordicai Lea's--and went with
them to Maiden Creek Meeting about one mile from there--after Meetg Dind at Tho. Lightfoots where we Draughted a Report to the Indian Coun. and T.
Stewardson havg sold his Mare to A Lea we here parted with him & went home with Amos 10 Miles, part of the Way in the Rain. 12th byber Rose again
before Day--took Breakfast by Candle Light & makg a small  stop at Benjamin Wrights passd thro PottsGrove & over Perkioming & Skippack Bridges &
stopd to Dine at a Tavern on the Turnpike Road, near the 18 Mile stone & the 2d. Gate having rode since Breakfast & feedg 33 miles--soon after
getting in here it began to Raise. Dinner over we left the Turnpike & passing by Jesse Foulkes House & Mill--thro North Walsand by Horseham Meetg
House & the Billet I parted with Jn. Brown near Byberry just at Dark & got in to Han Yarnalls soon after. John intending home that night--found
that HY had gone to Baltimore YM & Jas Suter to Phila. but I spent a pleasant Eveng with the Caretakers left at home -- my ride this Day is
computed 54 Miles. 13th 13th My Desire to reach home induced me to rise early before the Family but found the stable Lockd which produced a little
Detention--on getting to Dunks Ferry, the Hands had gone a & I was again Detaind near an Hour--but reachd Burlington at latish Breakfast time--
having been absent about three Days short of Six Weeks & rode, or traveld, 816 Miles. 9 mo 26 2 [Fish?] presented to us [?] .50cts Lodgd at Stephen
[Hazeltines?] 20 Miles 27 Lodgdg Feed &c. for 4 Persons $2.91 1/2 rode to Cataraugus Clear Creek 25 Ms. 28th Went to view the Ind. Town & Impr.
bing 8 miles out & 8 in 16 10 mo 1st. rode to Enos's on Lake Erie Lodgd 21 M 21st-- 23 2d. SUp. & Horses a Enos's $2.94 " Breakfast Dinner &
Horses at Buffaloe, called New Amsterdam 9 M $4. -- shoeing Horses--my own $2. Lodgd at [name?] Harris's 14. $4.69 8 3d. Breakfast at Vanderslice
Td pd.8. -- Batavia Keyes Tavern 18 [D?] & fed $1.88 Garrisons Tavern Supd & Lodgd 12. 2.25 40 4 Breakfast at McBerrys (Hartford) 13.-- 2.-- "
fed at Williamsburg 12.-- .37 1/2 " Lodgd at Dansville Inn a Rowley 15. 2.87 1/2 32 5. Breakfast at Chris Hulberts Tavn. Canisted 2 1/2 1.25 Creek
" Lodgd at Joseph Lugtneys & Breakfastd 19 1/2 2.75 41 6th Fed at Jones Tavern 18 --.50 " Dind & fed at Forks Tavn. formerly Linsleys 13. 1.87 1/2
" Lodgd & supd at a Q Widow Berrys 10. 3.-- 28 7th. Breakfasted & fed at Greno's Tavern 11. 1.12 1/2 " Supd & Lodgd at the Block House 17. 3.12
1/2 41 8th. 1st. Day Breakfasted & fed at David Reynolds Tavern 15. 1.50 " To Newberry 11 Miles & to Mercy Ellis's 15 in 26.  --.50 28 9th.
Breakfasted [Millers?]-- Fed at Jersey Town X Keys 16. --.46 Lodgd at Thomas Ellis's--Cattawassey 12. $40.51 10 mo. 9th. Amo. of Exp. bro. over
$40.57 41 10th. Breakfast at Tho. Ellis's " Fed ab. 12 at Michael [name?] 23 Miles $--.59 " Lodgd at Bensingers supd feed &c. 18 2.87 1/2 27 11th.
Breakfasted at Mordicai Lees 16. Dind at T Lightfoots 1 Mile Lodgd at Amos Leas 10m 11 Miles 4 $43.97 1/2 & Breakfast next morng. each 10.99 1/2
Rec'd of TS 7.87 1/2 3.12 $10.99 rec'd of TS 11.-- rec'd of A Lea 11 rec'd of Jn. Brown 12th Toll at Potts Grove--12 1/2--2d Gate 9cts--3d. D. 8.
--.29 1/2 Dind & fed at Thomas's Tavern near the 18 miles 54 stone on the Road S Road from A Leas 33 Ms. .87 1/2 2 117 X Rec'd 58 1/2 cts of Jn.
Brown each . 58 1/2 after Dinner rode to H Yarnells [?] 21 Ms. 13th Reachd home to Breakfast 8 Ms. [?] 37 1/2 122 291