 New Stockbridge 10th mo. 15th 1801 
Friend and Sister This is to let you know I am much
 rejoiced to see friend Joseph Clark , come by the side of our
 fire place, and bring our Girls home. I can not but
 bless the great good Spirit for his great goodness in preserving
 our long absented Girls from various dangers and that
 they have found favour in the sight of such good Friends, as to
 take them under their benevolent care and instruct them
 in good things and ways; I acknowledge that you have done
 a great deal for us, out of love to the Great good Spirit and
 your fellow Creatures, that we poor Natives might as it were
 rise up & walk, and follow the good path which you follow, by which
 I always feel thankful & hope you will not lose your reward
 in Heaven, I feel our obligations are increased as our advanta
-ges are increased to serve God in sincerity and in truth. The Religion is somewhat low amongst us, but Christians
 seem to keep on still, there has been but a few careless ones
 stir'd up for soul Concern, since your young Men left us, who
 were at Oneida, but others seem still to remain in the bon
dage of Spiritual Pharaoh, but God is able to turn their hearts
 and make them willing to walk towards Canaan. I have no time to express as I feel, but to conclude with your
 prayers that the Great good Spirit may pour down his bless
ings upon Us, that religion may again revive among us. Catharine Solomon 
 To Eliz'th Townsend 
 Daughter of Joseph Clark . From a Tuscaro Indian 1801Dear Friends, We are all well and glad to see the three
 Girls and our friend Joseph Clark , We often think of the
 kindness you shew’d us. Our Nation more plough their
 Land, and raise more Cattle, and build some new houses.
 Our Nation increase and raise more flax and we spin
 a little, and we hope by the assistance of the Great good Spi
rit we grow in his favour so as to have plenty of Corn Cattle and
 Flax; and become his Children and rest in his Kingdom.
 I feel much love in mine heart but am not able to
 express myself- Peter Okasantque From a young Indian Woman to Eliz'th Townsend /daughter of Joseph Clark 1801Dear Friend, No doubt but thee will excuse a letter from me
 who wishes thee, and all thy Society well, tho unknown to each
 other as to our bodily persons, yet I sincerely hope that we sincerely fre
quently converse with the same Spirit -- My dear Friend, thank
 thy father, and likewise thee for your kind care towards us the
 Natives of America, for I believe that you will have your re
ward for God will reward you. I give my kind love to all 
thy friends, and tell them that the Good Spirit is on its way to the
 dark Corners of the Earth. When my dear Friend, when will that 
happy day appear? When the Nations will learn War no more.
 For then Lion will arise and travail, and bring forth--She will bring 
forth. So farewell from thy unknown friend Gracy Crosby 