 Brothers of the Cherokee Nation or Red People. We who have spoken with you are glad to see
you here, and rejoyce that, you are come as messengers
of Peace. We wish you to know, that there are many
of our bretheren called Quakers settled in most of the
United States who are Lovers of Peace, and do not meddle
with war, and we are very sorry, that there hath
been any wars & bloodshed between you and the
people of the United States, for we believe, that we
are all the Children of the same Great Creator who
intended that, we should live in love and peace
with each other; but when any of his children
get drunk, cheat, steal of hurt & kill one another, he
is displeased with them, and when they will not
regard his good Spirit placed in their hearts, there
they go into all kind of wickedness, which brings
misery upon them, and they are not afraid even to
destroy the lives which came from the hands of the
Great Creator But 
 But if we pray to him for the help of his good Spirit
and feel it in our hearts, and attend to it, we learn to pity
those that the Evil Spirit makes unhappy, and we can do
good even to our Enemies. We therefore much desire that, our Brothers of the Cherokee
Nation may be brought more and more to the knowledge of
the Great Creator who is the father of all men, and that, as
 his Children they may live in love and peace with each other, & with all Men;
And then we believe the Red People would not live so much by
hunting, but employ themselves in tilling the Ground, learning
useful trades, and get proper Schoolmasters to teach their
Children, that they might be brought to love & obey the
Great & Good Spirit who made them. These Things we wish our brothers of the Cherokee
Nation to think of, and above all to pray in their hearts
to the Great and Good Spirit for his help in all their honest
undertakings, that they may be happy in this life, and aftr
death, in an everlasting Eternity. We desire these words from us your brothers may
take deep hold in your minds, and warm your hearts,
that, so you may be strengthened to tell them to the people 
 of 
of your Nation. We also pray, that the Great & Good Spirit may conduct
you home in safety, and make you the messengers of 
Good tidings from the Government of the United States. Farewell.
Philadelphia
the 19 day pf the Second month 1792 Substance of the ocasional
conversation with the 
of the Cherokee Indians
communicated to them by
their Interpretor.
18. 2 mon. 1792 & a copy 
 to them Signed by
Friends. & in presence of 
divers others at the house
of John Pemberton on the
Evening when they took a
respectful leave of us & ffnds
of them. 