 
 Some account of Rachel Coope 
 taken from notes that she preserv’d, from
 her letters and from personal knowledge. She was the daughter of Joshua and
 Edith Sharpless and was born the 3rd of the
 5 mo 1771. About the 15th year of her age
 her mother was taken from her by death,
 and the charge of her father’s family as
 housekeeper, very much devolv’d upon
 her; the trial in both respects she very
 sensibly felt, yet was enabled to con-
 duct her charge with stability and pru-
 dence, and bear the loss of her dear mo
 ther, with a becoming fortitude. For
 several years the charge of the family
 rested upon her to which she attended
 like one of riper age. She was cheerful in
 her disposition, and of a lively active turn
 of mind, which being seasoned with the
 baptizing power of Truth, rendered her
 company agreeable and instructive. About the 21st year of her age she was
 married to Benjamin Coope , and settled
 in the verge of Bradford meeting, of
 which she was a diligent attender, and
 increas’d in usefulness among them,
 labouring with friends in supporting
 Church discipline, and visiting those who
 miss'd their way. She several years acted
 as clerk to their mo. Meeting. In the year 1804 information was
 sent down from the yearly meeting to the
 quarterly and monthly meetings that the
 settlement made by friends among the na-
 tives on the Allegany river was now so advanced
 as to need the assistance of females 
 in instructing and exampleling
 their sex in domesting concerns. request-
 ing that if a suitably qualifyed friend &
 his companion should feel their minds
 engaged in the concern to come forward as vo-
 lunteers. When it information was spread in the monthly
 and quarterly meetings of which she was a
 member her and her husband’s minds became 
 so impress’d with it as to cause them to
 believe it right to give it place. And on
 closely tending to the concern it so ripened, as to
 make them willing to lay their prospect
 before the friends of their monthly meeting,
 for their sympathy and advise. Tho’ a
 close trial to their friends to part with
 them yet upon weighty deliberation they
 judged it best to leave them at liberty,
 to persue their religious prospects, as way
 might open: which on closely attending
 too they believed it right to prepare for
 the journey, and was were enabled to give up
 a good and comfortable home, the society
 of their friends and near relations to be
 found in the way of their duty. From
 the notes she kept of her journey the follow-
 ing is are extracted. 1805. 5 Month 20th After a time of comfortable
 quiet wherein we were favoured to feel the
 overshadowings of Divine regard a number
 of our friends and near relations being pre-
 sent we took leave of them in the feeling 
 embraces of endearing love: Father Coope bear-
 ing us company to James Embree’s . -- On
 parting with him tears flow’d in an abun-
 dance, under a feeling sympathy with
 him and ardent desires were raised in my
 heart, that he might be enriched with that
 peace, now in his lonesome and advanc’d
 stage of life, that is the precious enjoy-
 ment of the righteous: - We lodged at William
 Truemans where on my going to bed I
 quietly fell asleep. but waking before three
 Oclock, the remembrance of the parting scene
 so forcibly revived, that tears could not be
 suppress'd, and sleep departed. Thou O my
 God hast at seasons, in thy unmerrited
 goodness, been pleased to make bare thy
 arm, and in times of trial, as patience
 was abode in, offerd sweet consolation; un-
 der a humbling sense thereof, may I a
 little intercede for the renew’d continuence
 of thy love. ---- On the evening of their
 second days journey she remarks.-- My
 attention has been so taken up with viewing 
 the roads & the country, that I have had
 but little serious reflections yet have not
 had unpleasant sensations or enjoyed so
 large a portion of that precious conso-
 lation, which my soul, above all things,
 desires. - O that I may abide in a watch-
 ful state with my eye single to Him
 whose fatherly protection is as a wall
 round about all those who are severely
 devoted to serve him where ever their lots
 may be cast. On the th 8th day after they set off at the
 Big Meadows on the third fork of Pine creek the country became such a wilderness, the
 road thro' so little improved, being often
 intersected by the fallen timber, as to ren-
 der geting their waggon thro’ at that time
 impracticable, consequently they were oblidgd
 to leave it part of ther bedding, cloathing &c
 and persue their journey mostly on foot their horses
 being loaded with the necessaries of what
 they could take - they were four in number
 a young man who went to assist them 
 in going out, and a valuable female friend
 who was a fellow labourer in the work - going
 to reside with them. and they had but 3 horses
 On the 3rd day about noon they arrived at John
 Bells in Kings settlement.-- She says, John’s
 wife seeing us, (tho' we were strangers to each
 other) yet she came running to meet us with her
 cheeks bedew'd with tears. - The joy was mu-
 -tual. -- How consolating the sight of a friend
 after so fatigueing a journey; having been
 more than two days and nights in the wil-
 derness, since we left the last house. -- Altho
 the journey has been trying yet I felt some-
 thing so animating and encouraging to
 revive, and my heart was fill’d with so
 precious a sweetness, that it was a full com-
 pensation for our most trying seasons.
 Ah may I abide in the patience, with
 my eye single to Him, who knows what
 is best for us. -- On the eighteenth day
 after leaving home they arived safe and
 in good health at Tunesassah, the place
 of their destination. ---- The next day 
 she says- A great many of the natives came to
 see us, thro’ the course of this day; among them
 was Cornplanter ’s sister who said; “she was
 glad the Good Spirit had brought us safe thro’
 our long journey.”—which raised sensations so comforta-
 ble and endearing that my heart was
 fill’d with gratitude, and this language,
 in the secret of my spirit, was breathed,
 “Great and marvlous are thy works Lord
 God Almighty. 6 Month 14th They met the Indians in coun-
 cil, which was opened by one of their chiefs
 expressing thanks to the great Spirit, who
 had brought them safely thro’ so long and
 perilous a journey: - she then says the
 address from the committee relative to
 us was first read, then part of an epistle
 to their women. -- They were also inform’d
 that, notwithstanding our journey had been
 long and trying, yet we felt peace of mind
 in being with them, and hoped our sis-
 ters the Indian women would be wil-
 ling, when we became more acquainted 
 to be instructed in the ways of the white
 people-- After a considerable time of con-
 ference among themselves they inform’d
 us- We return thanks to the great Spirit
 to see you all well, and that he has preserv’d
 your women thro’ so long a journey, and
 that they have ariv’d safe in our country,-
 and we are much pleas’d they are going to
 stay among us, to instruct our women.
 We return thanks to the great Spirit, that
 he has put this into your hearts, and we
 wish you to make your minds easy. 8 Month 3rd In a letter to her father Coope 
 she writes- Altho this is the first time I
 have attempted to address thee in this
 way since we parted (exceping a few lines
 from Middletown) yet it has not been for
 want of affection, nay verily, the taking
 hold of thy hand when we parted, was
 by far the closest trial I met with among all
 my near relations, and for many miles
 I could not suppress the tears from flow-
 ing -- Our moving here was from a sense 
 of duty.- The impressions were so strong and
 at time would revive with such weight
 that I believ’d it right for me to submit
 our going to our friends; had they discoura-
 ged it I think I should have felt re-
 leased.-- My sincere desire from the first
 was, that we might be guided by that
 hand, that will lead all those rightly
 who rely thereon; and I thought there
 was a comfortable degree of peace experien-
 ced in being resigned: but the near sym-
 pathy I felt for thee, together with the
 many trials I had to meet with, reduced
 me so low that, had my request at a
 weak time been granted, I should not
 now be in a state of mutibility.--
 I am very sensible, that thro’ unwatch-
 fulness I have often err’d from the right
 way; yet have been made truly thank-
 ful, that conviction followed; and at sea-
 sons been enabled to renew covenant--
 but O the natural will, how strong, how
 hard to be kept in its proper subjection, 
 that I have been ready at times to cry
 out, must I always remain in a state
 of bondage.-- Oh may I double my
 warfare and press forward with the hope,
 that, by the aid of my heavenly Father, I
 shall be enabled to become a conquerer;
 remembring that in due time ye shall
 reap if ye faint not. Being at Philad a.
 on business a week before we set off – at a
 friends house we very unexpectedly met
 with WC -- who had something peculiarly
 encourageing to say to us; signifying that
 he felt so much sympathy and love to
 flow towards us when at dinner that he
 could not go up stairs without expressing
 it tho’ he several times attempted it--
 he address’d my husband with the appela-
 tion of beloved brother be not to diffident,
 for thou wilt be an instrument of good
 to that people. several times repeating
 the words go my dear friends and the
 Lord go with you. -- I thought it very 
 extraordinary after such a season of con-
 flict we had had to pass thro’ that we
 should meet with such encouragement,-
 Tho’ I know dear father that is not suf-
 ficient to rely upon, yet I have witness’d
 some refreshing seasons since parting
 with thee, particularly in our religious
 opportunities 10 Month 31st In a letter to me she says Last
 spring several acres of Oats with Timothy
 and Cloverseed with it were sow’d-- ½ a bushel of
 Buckwheat- and some potatoes and corn
 planted- all grew amazingly-- It has
 been a busy summer with us both men
 and women; the forepart of it we had at
 work a carpenter and mill right and a
 number of Indians diging at the race.
 It is very heavy work to clear land here, &
 it is surprizing to see the quantity of saw
 logs a few acres produces-- About 13 acres
 is put in with wheat. -- Potatoes, pump-
 kins and turnips we have in a bundance 
 they will be helpful in the way of fod-
 der. the oats likewise was mow'd for foddering.-
 It has not been in our power to render the
 natives much assistance this summer; yet
 I have no doubt our being here, has been
 useful.- We have spun some stocking wool
 for our own use: to se the wool converted in-
 to stocking has excited their astonishment.
 We have three little wheels ready to run when
 we get flax.-- We purpose this winter puting
 up a house near us for those Indians who
 wish to learn, to spin &c in.- They appear
 desirous to get more comfortable houses to
 live in- and for that purpose have bought
 many 100 ft. of boards.- When the young
 men first came here, the cattle were all the
 Indians had on their river.- They will
 now amount to several 100, a number of
 which are fine oxen which they have broke.
 I have endeavored to discribe the man-
 ner of our geting along, and what we have
 done. I will intimate a little to thee now 
 how I have fared.- Thou knew it was
 a close tryal to me, to give up to be thus
 separated from you; and I have often been
 made thankful that I was favoured to
 get into a state of resignation. I think
 I never enjoy'd a more comfortable state of
 mind, than since residing here.-- One first
 day eve afternoon when they were long I feeling the
 want of society to introduce a new train
 of ideas for the mind to dwell on - a little
 before the sun withdrew from us his rays.
 I walked out alone, seeking for some new
 objects to amuse me and persued the new
 road about ¾ of a mile to the river. as I
 walk'd along my mind unintentionally
 was engaged, in ruminating on my native
 home, my dear relations and friends, and
 why I should be thus seperated from
 them.-- I was satisfy'd that it did not
 proceed from any will of my own but
 much in the cross, and in submission
 to inward impressions.- As I was thus 
 musing my heart was fill'd with a preci-
 ous illumination, and self so reduced, that
 I felt willing to make a full surrender of
 my all, to the great and wise disposer of events
 but alass, this produced awful sensations;
 and I was ready to shudder at the prospect;
 when unexpectedly and unsought for a
 language reviv'd, “Fear thou not neither be
 dismay'd. I will strengthen thee, yea I will
 help thee, my grace is sufficient for thee.”
 O the Divine consolation that fill’d my
 breast.- Tho’ as to the outward it might
 look lonesome; being in the wilderness-
 far from society- some distance from the
 house and nearly dark: yet had I been
 in the midst of my friends no outward
 enjoyment could have been equal to the
 precious sweetness I then experienced--
 my heart overflow'd with gratitude-- any
 subtle petitions asconded for the continu-
 ations of his love, Tho’ felt unworthy of
 the least of the multiplied favours I am 
 receiving: may humility and reverence be
 ascribed to him alone who is forever worthy,
 Amen -- I have my bitters as well as
 my sweets, and tryals are necessary for my
 further refinement, and Oh that their may
 be a willingness to be searched and tried,
 untill every thing that is contrary to the
 pure truth, is done away-- To some near connections Dear Chil-
 dren, we that have been brought up in the
 plentiful enjoyment of this worlds pro-
 duce, and many other advantages, have
 abundant cause to be thankful. Oh how
 I have felt for many poor children that
 I have seen since I left home; particularly
 thro’ the course of our journey, but we
 must leave them to Providence who is
 the great superintendent of the Universe.
 We have mostly since being here enjoy'd
 good health, and live comfortably tho’
 much retired.-- have not got much engag'd
 in instructing the Indians; it will require 
 some time to learn their language and
 to procure materials for spinning 11 Month 1st To a friend - Thy letter of 7 mo last
 came safe to hand. The wholesome counsel
 together with the interesting information,
 was truly acceptable; for it reached me at
 a time when I was very desirous of hearing
 from my native home; being of the latest
 date of any I had received -- I was pleas'd
 to find thou hadst been to see my dear
 father Coope for whose situation I have near-
 by felt; knowing it was a close trial both
 to him and us, to be thus separated,
 now in his advanced stage of life.
 Indeed when I view'd the prospect not
 only of leaving him but society in gen-
 eral, with my dear friends and relations,
 to many of whom I have of late felt
 an increasing nearness, with desires for the
 advancement of our Zion, and to live so
 retired in an uncultivated part of the coun-
 try, was so in the cross, that at times I 
 was almost ready to run counter to se-
 cret impressions; but knowing my peace
 consisted in obedience; and remembring
 how it was with good old Jacob: when
 he left his father’s house to go into a
 strange country, that in the course of
 his journey, when alone, he had to ac-
 knowledge, “surely the Lord is in this
 place and I knew it not.”- and how
 he was preserv'd and bless'd, so that on
 his returning, he said, "I am not worthy of the
 least of thy mercies, for with my staff
 I passed over this Jordon, and now I
 am become two bands.”-- As these con-
 siderations reviv'd with renew'd faith,
 that the Divine presence, is still the
 same that ever it was, to those who
 are truly devoted to serve the Most
 High. - my faith was a little
 strengthened, the mountains gradually
 disappear'd and a belief increas'd, that
 if it was the Lords will for us to go, 
 he would support us if our eye were
 fixed upon him. -- Thus as I endea-
 voured to become resigned. I felt at sea-
 sons a comfortable consolation, and have
 experienced, even in this remote part of
 the country, a brook by the way, that
 will refresh the weary traveler.-- Our re-
 ligious opportunities are mostly attended
 with a lively savour. It is encouraging
 to hear that the petitions of those who
 have been & still are as valiants in our Israel are
 ascending on our behalf.- Surely it calls
 for grateful returns of thankfulness to
 the Author of all good.- The natives appear friendly disposed
 and are gradually increasing in the ideas
 of civilized life.-- Some of them are much
 spirited in cultivating their farms and
 in geting more comfortable houses.-- The concern feels weighty and impor-
 tant, and I have no doubt but that it
 was rightly founded; and if those engag'd 
 therein are careful to dwell near the Divine
 direction they will be preserved; and may
 at a future day have to view their labours
 with satisfaction. 11 Month 30th In answer to her brother JS who
 desired to be informed of the customs & man-
 -ners of the natives-- says Since the young
 men resided here, the natives had a great
 image cut out of a Pine tree and made
 after the figure of a man, and painted,
 so as to look frightful, which they call'd
 the Great Spirit. They had set times of
 worshiping and dancing before it. But
 as their minds became more enlighten'd
 some of them grew uneasy with
 this image, and they had many confer-
 ences what should be done with it; but
 they were fearful of destroying it, lest
 some evil should befall them.- At
 length one of their chiefs proposed taking
 it into the woods and puting some beans
 and corn by it, to shew their good will 
 for it. Hence after much debate Henry Obail 
 son of Cornplanter being permited to speak
 said, why this image you worship was once
 a little sprout that grew out of the ground
 it could neither hear nor speak - well it was
 made like a man and we worship it still
 it can neither hear nor speak- is this the
 sort of Great Spirit we worship, cant hear can’t
 speak - give me leave and I will make way
 with it.- At length it was given up to
 him, and he tumbled it into the river &
 it floated away -- but they watched him
 thinking some evil would happen him
 for so doing -- Notwithstanding their image
 is gone they still continue regularly twice
 a year their dances, offering sacrafices, some-
 times burning tobacco &c 12mo 23 From her diary. It has been snow-
 ing more or less these two days -- 25th Various reflections pass'd thro’ my
 mind to day as I sat knitting, of which
 the following is a part-- At this lone- 
 some hour when the watery clouds are
 discharging their whitened substance
 and the trees of the forrest are clad with
 the icy snow- while my mind is un-
 molested with the cares of this life - and
 my thoughts absorbed in awful medita-
 tion- may I view all temporary scenes
 as fading toys, and revere that hand
 from whom all good comes- Now at
 this solemn period attend O my soul
 in humility wait to be learn'd by this
 inward teacher -- O my faultering
 mind, how long wilt thou be blundering
 along in thy journey Heavenward. thou
 hast often seen this insufficience of hu-
 man frailty therefore in full confi-
 dence, rely on that Power which at sea-
 sons, thou hast felt to be precious.--
 And now O Lord permit me to intercede
 for a renewal of thy holy aid, that
 when thou in thy wisdom may see
 mete to hide, as it were, thy face from 
 me I may be enabled, in patience
 and humility to wait for thy coming;
 and when thou art pleased to be near
 and feed me I may not slide from
 the true path; for in thee and thee
 alone is safety.- 1806 1 Month 7th All things as to the out-
 ward glide comfortably along but I
 have often to pass thro’ seasons of deep
 humiliation. -- Thou only Lord knows the
 anguish of my spirit and sincerity of
 my heart, that I desire above all things
 to serve thee but, the cross and the assault
 of the enemy. - Will I never be able to
 overcome the many hindering things!
 Thou hast at seasons O Father clearly man-
 ifested to me thy will-- and sweet peace
 has accompanied faithfulness thereto
 Then Oh my soul why dost thou doubt.
 dwell low; in humility wait. let not
 thy faith fail, that so in the littleness thou
 mayest be enabled to do the Lords will. 23rd and first of the week-- My mind
 when favour'd to get into the quiet has
 enjoy'd a comfortable state of tranquility;
 but thro’ sundry requests of the natives
 also as the white people in passing up &
 down this river make this house a stoping
 place -and many travelers latterly calling
 some being detain'd- has occaisoned us
 some difficulty in sitting quietly down
 in our religious opportunities. Oh that
 we may be enabled thro’ all difficulties to
 dwell near that fountain, from whence
 preservation and heavenly instruction
 flows 1 mo 29 - From her Diary –- forward 9 leaves: 2 Month 22nd To her sister MS . When I wrote
 to father I mentioned that we expected
 to build a house neart this, for a school
 house which is now accomplished, and
 altho’ the weather much of the time since
 has been stormy and the river difficult
 to cross, yet we have not been unimploy'd. As soap making is a novel to most 
 of the Indians nay many of them
 seldom or never wash their clothes or even
 their hands or face- To impress their
 minds with habits of cleanliness appear'd
 to us the first necessary and important
 step- accordingly in the fall we proposed
 to them, to save their ashes and fat, and when
 our house was ready we would teach them
 to make soap – for when they bring their grists
 to mill in their canoes the materials could
 easily be brought with in them – for they
 generally live 10 or 12 m each way generally on the
 oppesite side of the river. tho’ their principal
 town is within 3 m.- There has been several
 girls out of 6 or 8 families who have at
 different times attended, and who appear'd
 anxious to learn- they were much pleas'd
 with having a considerable quantity of
 good soap to take home with them.
 between whiles they nit and spin a little.
 they bring provisions and cook for themselves;
 we shew'd them our way to make indian bread 
 and they say they like it much the best-
 if way opens we mean to teach them to
 spell-- The plan appeared to be well re-
 ceiv'd by both sexes-one of the chiefs said
 “That was the very thing” -- If half a do-
 zen of our girls in their native dress should un-
 expectedly pass thro’ the entry at West Town
 what an admiration it would raise- for the
 contrast is great.- and their is a satisfaction
 in trying to instruct them- notwithstand-
 ing their great ignorance- their souls also
 are equally as precious in the sight of the
 Supreme Being as ours. -- At unexpect-
 edly receiving a packet of letters she says
 Well dear sister I have been endeavour-
 ing in all things to be instructed whether
 to be full or empty, to abound or suffer
 want - I find you have entertain'd an
 idea that I have enjoy'd some comfot-
 able hours since my residence in this
 solatery abode, which has truly been
 the case: but alass! an uninterrupted 
 sunshine is not always best for us.
 The time of the arival of the last pack-
 et, and the preceding week was a proving
 season-- here I was, no change of society,
 no neighbouring meeting where perhaps
 I might receive a crum - Well it will
 cause me to get deeper and to know
 that my dependance must alone be on
 Divine help. -- I trust it was a season
 of renew'd instruction to me. 3 Month 22nd Dear cousin, Previous to the
 reception of thy letter, the tidings of
 the decease of your precious sister had
 reached us- and I feelingly sympathiz'd
 with you. Truly it must be a great con-
 solation in believing she was prepar'd
 for her awful change, which I have no
 doubt was the case. Oh that it may
 have an awakening tendency on those of
 her contemporaries who attended the
 solemn scene. Tryals of this sort and
 many others frequently occur during 
 our pilgrimage thro’ life; but it is
 written all things will work together
 for good to them who love and fear the
 Lord. -- The Indians are increasing in in-
 dustreous habits. At a late council
 they held among themselves they agreed
 and information was sent to the absent
 tees - that at a certain stated time
 each one mut relinquesh their hunting
 and be in readiness to attend to the
 labors of the field, being sensible that
 last spring a loss was sustained by
 not earlier applying themselves to it 5 Month 11 To me Thou requested an infor-
 matory letter respecting both ourselves &
 the improvements of the natives: as to
 the latter but little advancement is yet
 made among the females-not owing I
 think to our neglect- the charge we are
 intrusted with by our society and expect
 ed to give samples of its concern we often 
 feel weighty and important - and have
 set times to confer together with a
 view, to keep the subject lively, and to
 seek after a plan, that may be most
 conducive to their improvement.- and
 often among ourselves express a concern
 that we do so little.- yet when we reflect
 that we are endeavouring to do the best
 we can, labouring to keep in the patience,
 improving every favourable opportunity
 that may offer - way may yet open for
 our encouragement -- The children
 of Israel in their journey thro’ the wil-
 derness were directed when they saw
 no way to go forward to stand still.
 and way open'd beyond their expectation. I have had for some time past hum-
 bly to crave for patience both inwardly
 and outwardly, and have laboured to
 seek after that wisdom that is able to
 direct-- Thou knowest there are sea-
 sons when discouragements will assails us in 
 all weighty undertakings but if we en-
deavor to dwell near to the fountain
 of life, light may be permitted to
 shine as our of a dark place -- and to
 own the necessity of those proving sea-
sons and not to glory in any act of
 our own— I do not mean to convey discourage-
ments relative to the concern-- for I think
 the work is progressing-- but great matters
 all at once must not be looked for.
 Many of the men this spring appear in
 good earnest to have more cleared land
 and enclosed fields, but they long esta
blished custom of having the women in
 their cornfield is not easily relinquish'd.
 With respect to ourselves we enjoy good health,
 live agreeably, have a comfortable hose &c.
 the prospect of a good crop of grain (but
 a barn to receive it will have to be built)
 the improvements that are gradually
 making on our farm looks pleasant which 
 added to the returning spring, feels animat-
 ing-- The sawmill has steadily been
 kept going and many thousand feet of
 boards set in rafts down the river to Pitt[sburgh]- 5 mo 25th To her Uncle WS . We have lately
 had a visit from the Agent placed by gov-
 ernment of the six nations.- he resides at
 Buffoloe about 80 miles from this place-
 The Indians on this river had not receiv'd
 a visit from him since he was intrusted
 with his office- and we being entire strain-
 gers to him and his sentiments, respecting
 our being here on the errent we are- we were
 anxious to have an interview with him.
 The next day after his arival at Cold spring
 he had the Indians collected (our men at-
 tended). He communicated many pertinent
 remarks to them, suitably adapted to their
 capacities; endeavouring to impress on their
 minds, the advantage of industry and
 sobriety, and the cultivation of their land.
 Requesting them to be careful to bring 
 up their children to labor; endeavouring
 to convince them of the advantage it
 is to farmers to live seperate from each
 other and not in little towns. -- A sil-
 versmith had made many exertions
 to settle among the Indians, which
 we entirely disapproved - - The Agent 
 desired them not to suffer him to come
 on their land, for we would get their
 money for broaches and bobs that
 would be of no use to them. for when
 they wanted a yoke of oxen, if they
 had money they could go among the
 white people and get them, but if
 you take a basketfull of these broach-
 es they will not take them.- he also descanted
 on the great benifit of having the Qua-
 kers among them, and the advantages
 of the mills; signifying there were no
 people who had done more for them
 than they had-- He came home with
 our young men, and the eve was spent 
 in agreeable conversation. he intimated
 that the experiment of civilizing a na-
 tion of Indians he had not seen ful-
 ly tryed - but could discouver no more
 of a wild nature in them than pre-
 vaild among the whites. provide the oppor-
 tunity of education was the same.
 He said it was a great undertaking for
 us to leave our near connections and fri[en]ds
 but necesity call'd loudly for some
 attention to be given them- signifying
 he had heard of our society giving them
 some assistance, but had no idea so much
 was done-- On parting with him we
 had his good will and wishes for our
 success-- 6 mo 20 from her diary A fine refreshing
 rain after a week of warm dry weather
 all kinds of vegitation is revived
 but my poor mind feels dull and lan-
 guid, and the necessity of having faith
 and patience under every dispensation 
 that may be alloted me. that thro’ heights
 and depths I may at seasons, be favour'd
 to partake, if but a crumb of that bread,
 that nourishes and strengthens the soul;
 is what my spirit earnestly breaths for- 6 mo 26th To her sister ES -- The recital of thy
 short excersion in the country revived a
 recent visit made by me to Cold Spring
 an Indian town- and I was led to
 view the contrast- As true a picture of
 mine cannot be formed in thy ideas, as
 thine can in mine-- however to make
 a begining -- As the cornfields have lately
 call'd the attention of the women from
 their spining it afforded us some leisure;
 and I seized the opportunity to visit
 them in their own houses- Jacob Taylor 
 going on business to the town, and offer'd
 to escort me there-- when we came to the
 river an Indian with a canoe being there
 who cheerfully took us across- I had a
 pleasant walk up the river, viewing the 
 mountains on the opposite side intermix'd
 with narrow vallies clothed with spontaness
 herbage for the nourishment of the dumb
 beasts-- when we arived in the subburbs
 of the town we were haild by some of the
 inhabitants to know where we were bound
 to- Jacob inform'd them that I purposed
 spending the day among them, and by and
 by would call on them- as his business did
 not lead him far thro’ the town, he shew me the house I was
 bound too then left me- Mockensons I
 have found to be a pleasant covering for
 the feet in dry weather and my last sum-
 mers pair being worn out, I call'd on this
 woman who made them, to be speak an-
 other pair-- when I came to the door, I
 saluted her in their way. schano ah schano
 she reply'd- looking pleasantly- her five
 little folks being aroud- I invited my
 self in, also to a seat which I took on
 the end of a long bench- the day was
 warm yet she was churning close by the 
 fire-- I regreted the want of their lan-
 guage to instruct her how to manage it.
 I cannot converse with them tho’ make
 some awkward attempts-- when she was
 done she took her seat by me admiring my knit-
 ting which I had in my hand- I also
 (on purpose for them to try) had provided
 an other stocking which I then handed
 her, using my utmost endeavours to instruct
 her. she was, tho’ intent in learning very
 awkward- one of her neighbours coming in
 tryed it also - but to return - after churn-
 ing was done she washed a bowl, and with
 the assistance of a ladle collected and
 slightly worked the butter- then pour'd
 it (for it was like oil) into a pail of
 water, where it remained a few minutes
 then she again worked it with her ladle
 and salting it she sat it by me on the
 end of the bench (there being perhaps 4lb)
 with a piece of unleavened corn bread
 and an old knife, and invited me to dine 
 giving me for drink- buttermilk (how differ
 ent from thy dinner at Aunts) in the mean
 time two girls (perhaps 10 and 12 years of age)
 who had frequently been at Tunesassah came
 inviting me to their house. they ran before
 and prepared a seat for me by their mo-
 ther who was sitting at the door weaving
 a belt curiously decorated with beads.
 The eldest impatient to try her hand at
 knitting-and her sister clost by on her knees
 clost by gazing with pleasing attention to
 to see the dexterity of her fingers- in a few
 minutes she performed much better than
 the woman did in half an hour-- when
 she got in the way of it I left it with her
 and made several visits in the upper
 part of the town. When I return'd she
 told me by her fingers that she had knit
 six needles- and that 30 stitches were on a
 needle-- she reluctantly parted with it
 but time urged me homewards, having
 on my way several calls yet to make I had victuals at another place set for me
 which my paper, as I have in view some other
 thing to mention to thee, will give me no
 room to describe. I got thro’ and to the
 fording place about six- where 2 families
 live who in turn were to share of my visit
 and who I expected to take me across the
 river - but my expectations were erroneous
 for the houses were shut and no one to take
 me over-- here alone, I took my seat and bun-
 dle of shingles waiting for some favour-
 able event -- with which in ½ an hour I was finish-
 ed, for an Indian coming to the opposite
 side got a canoe and took me over- and
 I returned much pleased with my visits--
 ------ We had the assistance of 10 or more
 Indians for 2 day in raising a barn - the
 day of the eclipse proved to be one- the
 Indians had been told some time before
 that on this day the sun would grow
 dark- but some said “they were sure white
 people could tell no such things,” however 
 when the obscuration began it continued
 growing darker and darker untill for a
 few minutes it became total the atmos-
 phere resembled dark twilight and a
 number of stars made their appearances.
 well says one of the Indians the white
 folks does know more than us-- another
 said he expected a great many of the
 women were a crying, and he had a mind
 to cry too for it look so strange. Copied
 6 Month 30th To her brother NS .
 After passing thru a long winter & part of the spring with
 We were favored after passing, with
 but little intercourse, we were favoured to
 but little intercourse (thro’ a long win-
 ter and part of the spring) to receive
 a number of letters and was were much
 pleased with finding among
 them one from thee. - and may tell thee and dear sister, tho’ we
 are far seperated from the bosom
 of society, partaking of many hours
 of retirement that formerly we 
 were in a degree straingers to. yet
 I am thankful that mostly I en-
 joy a quiet resigned mind, and have
 not in the most trying dispensations
 I have experienced since being here,
 thought my lot hard, nor dare indulge
 one murmering thought. -- my relish
 for reading and meditation is much
 increased, and can truly say that ma
 ny comfortable hours have been sacri-
 ficed to these desires-- Altho I
 often feel poor and striped yet as
 patience is abode in the comfort-
 able belief, will prevails that the streams of Divine
 love are extended, to all the sincere hearted
 wherever scatter'd or how ever far remote from
 the bosom of society. will prevail.
 The query the yong man put to his Lord
 has of late affectingly accompanied my
 mind. “Good Master what good thing shall
 I do to inherit eternal life-” after enumerat-
 ing several things he added “go sell that thou
 hast and come & follow me.” this was a hard 
 saying to the natural part.- Oh that we
 may have our minds so disengaged from
 the encumbering things of this world that
 the growth of the pure seed may not in the
 least be retarded. -- The station of parents
 are very important. -- children are often improperly
 desiring wanting those things they see on others
 when they are young is the time to guard against future dif-
 ficulties by nipping things in the bud, and endeavouring
 to instill useful instruction into their tender minds. You
 feel the charge then why should I thus write. 1806 1 mo 29th From her diary -- Letters were receiv'd
 to day informing of the death of dear cousin
 Hannah Jacksons mother-- she is now no
 doubt reaping the benefit of a wellspent
 life-- may we who are left behind so fol-
 low her footsteps that when our final
 change comes, we may be prepared; -
 time to us all is uncertain, and the
 period when we shall be call'd hence
 we know not. turn back 9 leaves 9 mo 18th To me I dwell but little on the
 subject of receiving visits from my friends or when I shall 
 again be with you-- In regard to thy
 debilitated situation and want of health
 or whether we shall again meet in muta-
 bility, I hope submission and fortitude
 will be my companions and not only
 in that, but thro’ the varied dispensations
 that may be my lot to encounter. but
 dear father pleas to accept of the feeble
 breathings of thy daughter, that as thy
 natural abilities fail, and infirmities
 with age come on thou mayest be
 preserved a live in that that will endure
 beyond time. -- I was pleased to hear
 from my dear aged grandmother and
 wish to be affectionately remembred to
 her. I have often reverted to sensa-
 tions impressed on my mind when
 in company with some dear friends
 near their close of time here, also on
 visiting some infirm ones who were
 confin'd and for these I often feel a
 lively sympathy. 27th From her diary This eve my dear
 brother JS . arived. it was a joyful meet-
 ing to us both. -- he brought me a num-
 ber of letters from my dear connexions
 Oh how many blessing do I receive.
 may I ever walk worthy thereof and
 quietly acquies in the way cast up
 for me - with a heart devoted to love
 fear and obey my Heavenly Father, is
 the frequent breathing of my spirit. 28th To her sister P.S. -- If our school house
 could be fill'd with girls learning to spin
 knit &c the days would pass pleasantly away.
 A number when their corn is gathered gives
 us to expect their company. -- The man’s
 wife who has the sawmill is a weaver- and
 could we have a piece of the Indians spin-
 ing for her this winter to weave, it would
 prove a strong incitement for more of
 them next spring to sow flax. The com-
 mittee who has lately been among us 
 say they are much improved in cleanli-
 ness- and in many little matters I
 think they have gaind instruction, which
 will open the way for greater. It is
 no small task - to begin with girls 13,
 14 and 15 years of age - who are ignorant
 of all most every thing but howing corn
 and chipping wood-- the wheel runs
 back - the yarn tangles - it twists into
 curls, the end runs down, and such
 like-- which requires patience both for
 the teacher and learner -- Our know-
 ledge of their language is still very
 limited - so that we have shew them
 by signs - we have to keep up a plea-
 sant countenance- and repeating the
 words by and by you will get in the
 way of it - considerable improvement
 in different branches is already made
 by some -- Not in Joshua's 30th To a near relation. -- Not without
 casting a longing desire for a free 
 access to those hidden treasures in store
 for the faithful.” is a sentiment
 express'd in closing a subject in thy last-
 and feeling the energy and sincerity
 in which it was penn'd-that my spi-
 rit said amen -- Well knowing if faith-
 fulness is adhered to what this desire
 will produce-- Thou hast pass'd thro’
 some close proving seasons all intended
 for the trial of thy faith and to
 fit thee for further usefulness in thy
 day-- then let not the cross stand in
 the way but give up and the enjoy-
 ment of sweet peace will be thy reward.
 I speak from a small degree of expe
 rience, for after I was given up to this
 service some little prospects opened upon
 my mind accompaned with the belief
 that it was my duty to perform previous
 to leaving my native home-- but alas
 they were like mountains to the natural
 will. In thankfulness I may acknow- 
 ledge that as I laboured to get into the
 quiet, and faith have a resigned mind- I was
 strengthened far beyond my expectation
 to do the little that presented -- my con-
 solation at times has been great, feeling
 that the Divine presence was near when
 the glimmer of light was small. I
 feel cautious of dwelling long on this
 subject lest I squander the little good
 that I conceive has encreas since I be-
 gan to write - 10 mo 3rd in the other 6th About two weeks ago the com-
 mittee left us, and three days since my
 dear brother . I sensibly feel the strip,
 the sweets that are to be derived from
 society, and in the company of our near
 relations assumed their native force,
 and so powerfully prevailed that had I
 indulged those impressions they would
 soon have made me discontented and
 unhappy in my present retired situati-
 on, and for a season they did unsettle 
 my mind; but as I endeavoured to cast
 them of and seek for that resignation
 which had heretofore not only proved as a
 consolation but at seasons as a healing
 cordial to my relaxed mind, I was
 led to view the motive and cause why I
 was thus sepperated and a comfortable
 submission ensued. I was favour'd to
 experience the precious overshadowing of
 Divine love, my mind was humbled
 under the Heavenly canopy, and for a few
 days I seldom have experienc'd so quiet a
 repose. Oh may I be enabled to render
 the gratitude that is due to my great and
 good Benefactor for the many favours
 dispens'd to me a poor unworthy creature. 19th For near two weeks past I have
 had a painful gathering in my thumb.
 I have had in this slight affliction re-
 newedly to seek for patience 
 and to crave thro’ all trials I may be
 preserved from the least shadow of mur-
 muring - and a ray of hope reviv'd with
 a renewal of strength. 1807
 2 Month 21st To a niece who had lately lost her
 companion. -- The perusal of thy val-
 uable letter was truly satisfactory. It
 was comfortable to find that thou was
 favoured with so much fortitude and
 resignation. It is enough my dear to
 experience a Physician near to heal all
 our maladies; may we in our varied
 allotments daily endeavour so to walk,
 as to witness our minds more and more
 redeemed from the perishing enjoyments
 of this world. For what is self with all its
 acquired arts or what is there here that
 is worth placing our dependance on. The winter thus far with us has been
 very severe -- The ground these three months
 past been covered with snow. - but we have 
 a good warm house to shelter us from the
 northern blasts. A number of Indian girls has this
 winter given us their company - some
 of whom has made an incouraging prog-
 ress - a short piece is now in the loom
 principally the industry of two girls.
 - another piece is on the way - and a con-
 siderable quantity of very good thread
 has been manufacter'd and distributed
 among them generally. - Those two
 girls are desirous of having wheels of
 their own, and spin at home - and
 their request we mean to grant. Altho’ the disposition among the
 men to relieve their women in the
 labour of the field, has greatly en-
 creas'd; yet when the time for plant-
 ing corn comes, the females have to
 give their assistance more or less, thro’
 the summer. still there are intervals
 if they were so disposed, that might 
 be devoted to spinning knitting &c
 an increas of exertion on their part
 would be satisfactory, but pati-
 ence on ours is necessary. Not in the other 5 mo 24th To her parents. -- I have
 been thinkin whether in my situa-
 tion, it would not be advisable to
 request of our kind friend Francis King 
 the liberty of making his house my
 home, for a part of this summer,
 where I could have the company of
 my own sort of people. but upon
 weighing the prospect the preponder-
 ating scale was in favour of remain
 ing in my present place. I hope
 you will not be uneasy about me. my
 health is mostly good, and my
 mind resign'd, for which favours
 I am truly thankful. The pro-
 posed visit from some of you cre
 ates pleasant sensations, but when
 I view the distance, the roughness of 
 of the road, and how unaccustom'd you have
 latterly been of riding on horseback, I
 feel unworthy of such attention.
 yet I do count on having sister Edith ’s
 company, and as for thine my dear-
 ly belov'd father thou knowest thy abil-
 ity to encounter such a journey better
 than I do. I hope prudence will dictate
 rightly. and tho’ it will be a close trial
 to my dear mother to give the up yet
 if it is right I Hope she will receive
 strength so to do. and if we are favour'd
 to meet my desire for myself is to be in a
 compos'd state of mind. 7 mo 3. To her mother -- I anticipate
 in about two weeks the arival of some
 of our near relations. To know whether
 they are coming and the time of setting off
 would be gratifying to me. A fear
 at times assails me mind least I shall
 lack of that patience and fortitude my
 present situation demands. Tho’ of 
 late time has pass'd comfortably along
 feeling my faith a little strengthen'd
 and my trust in the alone source of
 preservation renew'd. 7 mo 22nd From her diary -- A number
 of circumstances has latterly accured
 that has felt trying yet thro’ all I have
 endeavour'd to keep quiet, believing a
 way will be made for that which is
 right; and to be resign'd to the event
 be it as it may is what I ardently
 wish. 
 This is the last account kept by
 her self or we have from any of her
 letters. Believing her situation claimd
 the company of some of her relations
 my daughter Edith and myself pre-
 par'd and the 12 of the 7 mo 1807 left
 home and in 13 days ariv'd at Tunasas-
 sah. The family received us with express-
 ions of joy in their countenances. particular- 
 -ly gratifying was our arival to Rachel 
 for her mind was sinking under discou-
 ragements and at the point of desparing
 of our not geting there. She with the
 rest of the family were in the enjoyment
 of health. Eleven day were agreeably spent
 in free conversation, mutually glad after
 a sepparation of more than two years
 to be in each other’s society The 5th of the 8 mo. She was taken un-
 well, and in two days in the day was
 prospect of her recovery look'd
 gloomy. She was given over by the Dr.
 at this moving period. I thought it
 best to make her acquainted with her
 critical situation, that the probability
 of her being raised was small.
 after a
 short pause she reply'd - I would have
 been willing to have continued a while
 longer with my dear husband assisted
 in the concern we came here about, and
 to have return'd with him to our friends; 
 but if it is not to be so I feel resign'd.
 I said my dear child I hope and believe
 thou art prepared to leave this world.
 with much composure and a solid coun-
 tenance she answered, I have been en-
 deavouring to stand resign'd and have
 my mind prepared if such a change
 should take place- and I now feel quite
 easy under a full belief that there is a
 place of rest prepared for me. A while
 after she looked very affectionately at me
 and said My dear father, I am glad
 thou art here. I heard of thy being poor-
 ly, and was fearful thou wouldst not
 be able to encounter so ardious a journey
 therefore could never urge thy coming
 but I am glad thou art here, and I
 hope thou will get safely home. Notwithstanding her very tryed situation
 her mind seem'd carried above it compos'd
 and resign'd with no dejection in her
 countenance. -- The advice of another 
 Physician being needful and one living
 within 30 miles, tho' thro' a wilderness
 mountainous country, he was sent for.
 The Doctors on confering together, believ'd
 it not in their power to give her relief.
 After they had come to this conclusion
 I took my seat by her bedside. she
 look'd a few minutes at me then,
 with her natural voice and much sim-
 plicity asked me what the doctors thought
 of her. I told her, her situation was
 so difficult they apprehended they could
 administer no relief. she reply'd
 why do they think so? - then pausing
 awhile said I must be content and
 in a short time adding, I feel resign'd. She delivered herself with much ease and
 freedom, not appearing to be distress'd
 or cast down, no heaviness in her
 countenance or fear in her eyes. Shortly
 after her first Physician came to
 take leave of her, and taking her 
 by the hand said, Well Rachel I have
 thought of going, are you willing?
 She answered I do not see any thing
 more thou canst do for me, I believe
 thou hast done the best thou couldst.
 he then asked her if she felt resign'd to
 her fate. she said she thought she did;
 but it is a trial to me to leave my
 dear husband so far from his friends
 yet we are poor dependant beings we
 must submit. Then pausing she added
 Doctor thou seest there is no age ex-
 empt from death, the middle aged
 are call'd away as well as those further
 advanced. how necessary then for us always
 to be prepar'd. -- Being some reliev'd
 the forepart of this (which was the third
 of her sickness) she was cheerful tho’ very
 sweet giving her sister directions about
 some things, also saying to her sister
 it is my request that you will ever
 remember my dear Benjamin as a 
 brother for he has been a very kind hus-
 band to me and I have often profited
 by his instructive conversation. On the fourth day of her illness a change
 took place and for a few day the flattering
 expectation that her life would be pre-
 serv'd was indulged, but a fever with
 some other unfavourable symptoms seiz'd
 her which seemed to baffle all the efforts
 that was given for her relief, and felt nature
 not having strength to resist yielded to their
 powerful assaults. -- she weaken'd fast
 yet appear'd to lay with an easy mind.
 her bodily pain was great and hav-
 ing found some relief by being mov'd
 often made the request. She would
 look very affectionately at me at times
 and say, Well father I feel very un-
 easy, I believe I must be mov'd a little,
 I suppose thou wilt think me very
 bothersome, but it gives me some relief.
 Tho’ it was moving to see her so 
 afflicted yet I was glad I was with
 her, she appear'd so much in the inno-
 cency, no anxiety manifested concern-
 ing her situation, her mind much
 resign'd and a willingness to comply
 and act just as was thought best. The day she deceas'd her pain much
 abating, she lay more easy tho’ a high
 fever was still her companion which
 so affected her mind as to cause it to
 be much affloat particularly when in
 a doze. About three Oclock she appear'd
 in fervent supplication tho’ not clearly
 understood, and frequently in the few
 remaining hours that she continued with
 us her mind was similarly engag'd
 not only interceding for herself but others
 which fully evinced that her day would
 close in peace. About this time her
 hands and feet began to grow cold,
 and her pulse to beat more feebly tho’
 very quick. I ask'd her if she knew 
 we were waiting to see her close. she
 said where are you waiting? I answer’d
 around her bed. She reply'd I am very
 low -- About half an hour before her
 departure I took hold of her hand to
 feel if she had a pulse, apprehending
 she was too far gone to notice it, but
 she asked if she had any fever. I replied
 not much -- I then ask'd if she felt
 very sick she answer'd no. I think I
 feel a little recruited, am pretty easy
 and if I had a good place to lay I
 could go to sleep - I said my dear child,
 thou wilt soon be in a sweet sleep.
 she replied I believe I shall -- at
 this time a cold sweat was pouring
 from her - and shortly after she said
 I am in such a perspiration that
 I cannot get my mind composed.
 I want to have it settled- having
 frequently thro’ the course of the day
 expressed the same desire -- she present- 
 -ly call'd for a cup of tea - which was
 brought to her - but she was in so great
 a tremor that it was with much diffi-
 culty she drank it, and being sensible of
 her situation she said, I am so discom-
 posed that I can scarcely drink it.
 then having a little more she said that
 is sufficient. -- she then altered very
 fast, - and in a few minutes without
 struggle, sigh or groan quietly breath'd
 her last. ---- Thus this hand-
 maid of the Lord, in the meridian of
 life, being in the 36th year of her age
 closed her days and is now without a
 doubt receiving the rewards of her faith-
 fulness. A number of the Indian women
 from the first of her illness untill her
 close manifested much concern for her
 recovery, - bringing different kinds of
 herbs and roots for her relief as well as
 giving from time to time their best 
 advice; and when they heard she was
 no more, their countenances manifest-
 ed much sorrow. ---- She departed
 16 of the 8mo 1807, ---- the next
 day being fixed on for her burial, invi-
 tations were sent among the In-
 dians, & near 20 of the graver sort attend'd
 principally women, a number coming
 into the room, and after looking at the
 corps in much brokenness quietly took
 their seats untill it was closed, which
 was not untill after a time of solemn
 silence.- Several of the Indians who
 did not come in sent their excuse
 saying, They could not bear to see her
 for the sight would overcome them and
 they would weep aloud. They follow'd
 to the grave in the same becoming
 manner. -- They return’d into the room
 and took their seats for I suppose
 15 minutes. They were then serv'd with
 fresh bread and in a few minutes 
 after individually shook hands with
 us and bade us farewell, some of
 them saying to us that they were very
 sorry Rachel was taken away but en-
 couraged us to bear the trial patiently
 for such things must happen to the
 white people as well as the Indians. Cornplanter lived down the river
 about 12 miles and he came in a few
 days to see us. his countenance mani-
 fested him to be a true sympathizer.
 he said he was very sorry for what
 had happened among us and hoped
 we would not be discourage for this
 was the first since the settlement
 was made among them and that
 such tryals would be the lot of white
 folks as well as Indians. he took
 leave of us with tears in his eyes. 